A dense forest on a dark, misty night.
YOUNG EDWARD CARNBY (age 10), small, thin, and terrified,
runs for his life.
2
The forest is pitch black. Young Edward ducks between trees,
under branches, not stopping for anything, GASPING for
breath. He doesn't turn to look behind him. He just runs as
fast as he can.
P.O.V. CREATURE:
Tomething chases Young Edward through the dark forest. Its
P.O.V. is skewed, inhuman. It is gaining on him.
As Young Edward runs, beams of light become visible through
the closely packed trees. Something is up ahead, something
bright. Edward runs towards it.
Young Edward bursts out into a clearing in the woods, running
towards the bright light.
P.O.V. CREATURE:
The light stops whatever is chasing Young Edward at the edge
of the forest. What is making the light isn't visible, only
Young Edward's silhouette running towards the blinding light.
1A
1A
SUPER: 20 YEARS AGO
The beams of a dozen flashlights cut through the mist of the
dark forest.
A dozen uniformed DEPUTIES move through the forest, shining
their flashlights around, searching.
The trees tower over them. A low fog hangs in the air. The
flashlight beams can barely penetrate it.
2
A large and stately old house stands on the edge of town. A
small, dense forest stretches out behind it.
The sign on the front reads: OUR LADY OF PERPETUAL LIGHT
ORPHANAGE.
(CONTINUED)
2.
CONTINUED:
Several patrol cars are parked along the Orphanage's gravel
driveway. DEPUTIES mill around the front lawn.
Another patrol car pulls up. Out of it steps the SHERIFF
(late 40s). DEPUTY ADAMS (mid-30s) approaches him.
SHERIFF
What's going on, Adams?
DEPUTY ADAMS
Twenty kids live at this orphanage,
Sheriff. All twenty have gone missing.
SISTER CLARA (mid-40s), an anxious-looking nun, stands on the
front porch, wrapped in a shawl. She speaks with two
DEPUTIES. The Sheriff walks up and listens in.
SISTER CLARA
After the power went out, I went to check
on the children. But their beds were
empty. Every one of them. They just
disappeared...
3
3
The Deputies sweep through the forest with their flashlights.
The trees are close together, blocking out the moonlight. A
thick mist hangs in the trees.
As Deputy Adams moves through the forest, he sees a bright
light streaming through the trees up ahead.
3A
3A
Deputy Adams comes through the trees and emerges into a
clearing in the woods.
He sees a Shed in the clearing up ahead. A bright light is
posted over the Shed's front entrance.
4
4
Deputy Adams shines his flashlight around the outside of the
Shed.
He sees that the door is open just a crack. On the door is a
sign marked: DANGER, along with the symbol for ELECTRICITY.
6
6
The Sheriff stands with his Deputies. His walkie-talkie
CRACKLES to life.
DEPUTY ADAMS (ON THE WALKIE-TALKIE)
Sheriff! I found one! White, male, about
ten years old. Looks to be unharmed. He's
in a utility shed maybe half a mile from
the orphanage.
13
13
Carnby exits the Terminal and heads over to a row of taxis
waiting outside the Terminal. He doesn't carry a suitcase.
CARNBY (V.O.)
So, maybe you're thinking I'm an asshole,
trying to scare this poor kid for no
reason. But that's where you're wrong.
Because I've got my reasons. There's a
world around you that you've trained
yourself not to see. You've willfully
closed your eyes. But your fear of the
dark is not a weakness. It's there to
protect you from things you'd better pray
you never see. My eyes were forced open a
long time ago. Now I know. Just because
you can't see something, doesn't mean it
can't kill you.
Carnby steps into the first taxi waiting in the row. The taxi
shifts into gear and drives off.
Another taxi is parked up ahead. As Carnby's taxi passes it,
the second taxi pulls out and follows it.
13B
13B
The two taxis drive through traffic. Pinkerton's taxi lags a
few cars back, but matches Carnby's taxi move for move.
13CC
Carnby's taxi accelerates down the street, pulling away from
Pinkerton's taxi.
As soon as it's evident that they are on to him, Pinkerton's
taxi speeds up to give chase.
The two taxis rocket down the streets, swerving past cars,
SCREECHING around corners.
Carnby's taxi speeds down the streets, narrowly avoiding
collisions with other cars and PEDESTRIANS.
Pinkerton just plows through whatever's in his way, SMASHING
past other cars, forcing Pedestrians to jump out of the way.
Pinkerton accelerates and tries to force Carnby's taxi off
the road. The taxi's GRIND against one another.
Carnby's taxi SCREECHES around a corner, speeding into a side
street that leads to the Market Street.
7.
13D
13D
A busy street crowded with PEDESTRIANS, open shops, and
produce stalls.
Carnby's taxi races down the busy Market Street, followed by
Pinkerton.
They swerve and SCREECH down the Street, cutting off other
cars, and narrowly avoiding Pedestrians.
But then Pinkerton's taxi ZOOMS up beside Carnby's taxi and
BUMPS into it with a GRINDING CRUSH of metal.
Not stopping, Pinkerton's taxi continues to GRIND into
Carnby's taxi. The momentum pushes Carnby's taxi around
sideways.
Pinkerton's taxi then SLAMS Carnby's sideways taxi into a
parked car with a CRUSH of metal and SHATTERING glass.
There's a moment as Carnby, trapped inside the CRUSHED taxi
and Pinkerton, flooring the accelerator to add more pressure,
exchange a look. Pinkerton's expression is fierce.
Pinkerton gears the taxi into reverse, backing up in order to
smash into Carnby's taxi again.
The Cabbie is trapped by the crushed front of the taxi. His
face is covered with a spiderweb of deep cuts. The Cabbie
struggles to get loose.
CABBIE
I'm trapped, man!
CARNBY
I'll draw him away...
As Pinkerton's taxi backs up, it CRASHES into a Van driving
by, knocking it over onto its side and spilling the contents
of the Van onto the street.
This gives Carnby the brief moment he needs to extract
himself from the crushed taxi. He wrenches himself out the
window, just in time to see Pinkerton's taxi accelerating
towards him.
Carnby bolts away from the crushed taxi and the trapped
Cabbie.
Pinkerton immediately swerves his taxi, aiming it right for
the running Carnby. Pinkerton's taxi rockets towards him.
(CONTINUED)
8.
CONTINUED:
Carnby leaps out of the way as Pinkerton's taxi CRASHES into
the side of a Building, narrowly missing him. Pinkerton's
taxi is CRUMPLED in a CRASH of metal and glass.
Carnby narrowly avoids being crushed between the taxi and the
building. With fluid grace, Carnby rolls to safety, landing
on his feet. With a quick look back over his shoulder at
Pinkerton in his crumpled taxi, Carnby runs.
Pinkerton steps out of his taxi, seemingly unhurt by the
crash. He looks around, but can't see Carnby anywhere on the
street.
Pinkerton runs for an iron-wrought staircase that leads up to
a Pedestrian Bridge that hangs over the Street.
At the top of the Pedestrian Bridge, Pinkerton looks up and
down the street.
He spots Carnby, running through the crowd of Pedestrians.
Pinkerton leaps off the Pedestrian Bridge, arcing through the
air with superhuman force.
Pinkerton TACKLES the running Carnby to the ground, SLAMMING
into him with a tremendous impact.
But Carnby is quick. He takes the hit and spins Pinkerton
around with a martial-arts kick. The kick sends Pinkerton
CRASHING through the front window of a Bakery.
13F
13F
Carnby stands in a crowd of BYSTANDERS, watching in surprise
as Pinkerton exits the Bakery, his expression fierce.
Pinkerton immediately spots Carnby and comes after him.
Carnby bolts away, running into a Herbalist Store across the
street.
9.
13H
13H
Carnby BURSTS out of the Herbalist Store's back door, exiting
out into a small, cluttered Alley.
Carnby lands hard in the debris, but he rolls with the fall
and is back up on his feet, running.
The Alley ends in a high Wall with a Billboard on top of it.
The Wall has a railing along one side.
Carnby vaults over the railing and keeps running.
The Alley is crowded with WORKERS unloading crates out of the
loading dock of the Ice Factory.
A BEAT COP walks by. Carnby runs past the Beat Cop, just
barely bumping into him.
But as Carnby passes him, he deftly grabs the Beat Cop's gun
from his holster.
The Beat Cop doesn't even notice his gun is missing as he
turns, annoyed to see Carnby racing away.
(CONTINUED)
10.
CONTINUED:
BEAT COP
Hey!
Pinkerton runs out of the Herbalist Store's back door. He
runs directly at the high Wall.
Pinkerton leaps up, scrambling right up the side of the Wall.
He hauls himself up the Billboard, until he's standing at the
top of the Billboard itself.
Pinkerton looks down below and spots Carnby running into the
loading dock of the Ice Factory.
Pinkerton leaps off the Billboard.
The Beat Cop looks up, stunned to see Pinkerton leaping
towards him.
Pinkerton lands on top of a moving dolly of crates, CRUSHING
the crates on it. The WORKER pushing the dolly falls back,
shocked. Pinkerton leaps off the dolly and keeps chasing
after Carnby.
The Beat Cop fumbles for his gun. It's not there. Pinkerton
smashes the Beat Cop out of the way as he pursues Carnby.
The Beat Cop flies into a pile of crates, knocked out.
Pinkerton follows Carnby into the Ice Factory.
17
17
The elegant Museum of Natural History. A wide staircase leads
up to an entranceway surrounded by stone pillars.
Over the front of the Museum hangs a large banner reading:
"SECRETS OF THE ANCIENT ABKANI  COMING SOON".
19
19
A large Ship out on the open sea.
(CONTINUED)
14.
CONTINUED:
CREWMEN scurry around the deck attending to a huge crane that
hangs over the side of the Ship. Chains leads from the crane
into the water.
DR. LIONEL HUDGENS (mid-60s), wiry and severe with a sharp
intelligence, stands on the deck with CAPTAIN CHERNICK (late
40s). They look down at the water.
CAPTAIN CHERNICK
They say a sunken ship is like a grave.
It should never be disturbed.
HUDGENS
I've been searching for the Erebus for
twenty years, Captain. Now that I've
found it, I'm afraid your ill-informed
superstitions aren't enough to stop me.
20
20
Two DIVERS in high-tech Newt Suits break the surface. They
signal to Captain Chernick.
1
21
Hudgens nods to Captain Chernick.
HUDGENS
Bring it up.
Captain Chernick signals to his Crewmen.
The crane is engaged. The chains run through the mechanism of
the crane, pulling something to the surface.
The crane GROANS under the weight. Captain Chernick looks
nervous as the crane SHUDDERS with the strain.
22
22
Out of the ocean, the crane raises a large, heavy container.
The container is about eight feet long. It is battered and
damaged by the ocean water, and covered in barnacles.
24
24
The Ship is docked at a mist-enshrouded pier. Overhead lights
along the dock illuminate the area.
A transport truck is parked on the Dock just next to the
Ship's loading ramp.
In front of the ramp, five CREWMEN with automatic weapons
stand guard, smoking and looking vigilant.
SCENE 25 OMITTED
26
26
Standing on the Ship's wide deck, Captain Chernick looks
impatient. Hudgens stands over the large, barnacle-covered
container. The container is secured with a heavy rusted lock.
Two large, muscular men, the FIRST MATE and CREWMAN BARNES,
check the chains connecting the container to the huge crane
on the deck. They are preparing to load it onto the truck on
the Dock.
CAPTAIN CHERNICK
Don't you want to open it? Make sure it's
what you're looking for?
HUDGENS
The conditions must be perfect.
Otherwise, there will be... consequences.
Captain Chernick steps up to the barnacle-covered container.
He notices that a section of the barnacles have gotten
scraped off in the transport.
Under the barnacles, the container is revealed to made of
gold. Chernick look startled.
Captain Chernick rubs the gold spot on the container and
looks closely at it.
CAPTAIN CHERNICK
Is this made of solid gold?
HUDGENS
Did you know the Abkani were the first
civilization to use gold for their
valuables? They believed it held the
power to contain evil spirits. Thousands
of years later, we don't even remember
why gold was valuable to us in the first
place. Now, let's load it onto the truck.
Captain Chernick exchanges a look with the First Mate and
Crewman Barnes. They both give him a subtle nod.
26C
26C
Captain Chernick approaches Hudgens at the container. The
First Mate and Crewman Barnes stand quietly behind them.
CAPTAIN CHERNICK
If the container's made of gold,
whatever's inside must be worth a
fortune.
HUDGENS
You have no idea...
Chernick pulls out a pistol.
CAPTAIN CHERNICK
But I'm looking forward to finding out.
Chernick smacks Hudgens across the face with his pistol.
Hudgens gives Chernick a grim look.
HUDGENS
I suppose one should not be surprised
when mercenaries act mercenary.
rewman Barnes grabs Hudgens and twists his arms behind his
back, incapacitating him. The First Mate pulls out a revolver
and points it right at Hudgens' face.
Captain Chernick wedges a crowbar into the container's lock.
(CONTINUED)
2
18.
CONTINUED:
HUDGENS (CONT'D)
You're making a terrible mistake.
CAPTAIN CHERNICK
The only mistake would be letting you
walk out with whatever's in there.
Barnes...
Crewman Barnes SMASHES Hudgens' head against the container.
Hudgens is dazed from the blow.
CAPTAIN CHERNICK (CONT'D)
Throw him in there.
Crewman Barnes throws the dazed Hudgens into a Storage Room
built onto the Deck. He slams the thick metal door closed.
The door has a small, glass-covered peephole built into it.
Chernick pries open the lock with the crowbar. Chernick hands
the First Mate the crowbar and he jams it into the handle of
the door, wedging it closed.
28
28
The First Mate and Crewman Barnes watch in fasciation as
Captain Chernick prepares to open the gold container.
C
APTAIN CHERNICK
Let's see what all the fuss is about...
He opens the container.
With a deep SIGH, the vacuum of dry air escapes.
1
31
John exits the house. He walks down the front path and out
into the night.
36
36
As the First Mate and Crewman Barnes watch in anticipation,
Captain Chernick opens the gold container all the way.
The container is empty.
The lights along the Deck start to flicker.
5
55
Linda stands on the Front Porch, her eyes red from crying.
Carnby is just leaving. He holds some recent photos of John.
CARNBY
I'll figure this out, Linda. I'll find
John.
Carnby moves to leave.
LINDA
Edward... you've known each other since
you were kids. Did he... did he tell you
he was leaving me?
CARNBY
Of course not.
LINDA
Then where is he, Edward? What's going
on?
SCENES 56 AND 57 OMITTED
57A
57A
The Orphanage looks much the same after twenty years. It is
slightly more worn-down, but still well-maintained.
C
arnby drives up the gravel driveway in his black SUV. He
pulls to a stop behind an old, battered yellow School Bus.
From a window on the ground floor, SISTER CLARA (now mid-60s)
watches him.
A few CHILDREN play on the Orphanage's front lawn. They all
look over at Carnby, curious, eager.
Carnby exits his SUV. He looks around at the Orphanage
grounds as he walks up the front steps. He smiles at the
Children.
(CONTINUED)
26.
CONTINUED:
Sister Clara opens the front door. SOPHIE (age 13) stands
with her, eyeing Carnby suspiciously.
SISTER CLARA
Welcome home, Edward.
SOPHIE
Should I make some tea?
SISTER CLARA
Yes. Thank you, Sophie.
Sophie sneaks a look back at Carnby as she enters the house.
Sister Clara approaches Carnby, smiling warmly.
SISTER CLARA (CONT'D)
Let me get a look at you. Are you
sleeping enough?
CARNBY
Sister... John disappeared last night.
And something happened to me as well.
Sister Clara's expression drops.
SISTER CLARA
It's happening again.
A YOUNG GIRL (age 8) runs up to them. She hides behind Sister
Clara, staring up at Carnby, curious, a little scared. Carnby
smiles at the Young Girl and she ducks behind Sister Clara.
But then she sticks her face out to watch him again.
CARNBY
I need your help, Sister. I need to find
the others.
SISTER CLARA
I'll get their files.
SCENE 57B INCORPORATED INTO 57A
58
58
The outdoor patio of a downtown Restaurant. Carnby sits with
a coffee and a cherry pie at a table for two.
AGENT PAUL FISCHER (mid-50s), precise but friendly,
approaches the table and sits down across from Carnby.
FISCHER
Why did I agree to this?
A WAITER walks up. He puts down a plate of pecan pie in front
of Fischer. The Waiter smiles and walks away.
CARNBY
I ordered for you, Fischer. It's pecan.
Fischer gives Carnby a smirk.
FISCHER
You've got a good memory, Carnby.
Fischer takes a bite of the pecan pie.
Fischer pulls out a file and slides it across the table.
Carnby opens the file. Inside it are photos and reports on
the three remaining Orphans from Carnby's list.
(CONTINUED)
28.
CONTINUED:
FISCHER (CONT'D)
I tracked down the three you asked about.
They all disappeared last night. Same
story. No suitcase. No car. Just up and
walked out in the middle of the night.
CARNBY
That means all nineteen are missing.
FISCHER
I ran full cross-references. Nothing much
in common between them. Except they all
grew up in the same orphanage. Your
orphanage. What's going on, Carnby?
CARNBY
That's what I'm trying to find out.
Carnby gets up to leave. He picks up the file.
CARNBY (CONT'D)
Thanks Fischer. It's good to know I've
still got friends at 713.
SCENE 59 OMITTED
60
60
As the sun sets, the streetlights around the Museum all come
on in unison, bathing the area in a warm glow.
The lights are all on in the Museum.
A sleek black Bureau 713 helicopter hovers over the building.
A pair of spotlights shine beams down through the skylight.
86
86
The lights around the Museum have come back on.
A pair of Bureau 713 Humvees are parked with large spotlights
set up in front of them, shining into the Museum.
ommander Burke stands with Agent Miles. They both wear full
combat gear, visors, and headset comm-links. Burke addresses
five AGENTS in combat gear.
BURKE
I want a full security sweep. Miles, get
Fischer to send his sci-and-spy boys down
here. Now go.
The Agents stream into the Museum in formation. Burke and
Miles follow in after them.
91
91
The front of the Museum has been completely blocked off.
There is lots of activity, as BUREAU AGENTS mill around.
Aline sits in the back of a 713 Emergency Medical Vehicle. A
713 MEDIC finishes dressing the cuts on her arm.
Carnby approaches her. Aline nods to the Medic and gets up to
join Carnby. They speak quietly.
ALINE
I want to finish studying those
artifacts.
CARNBY
I need to find out what's happened to
John and the others. Stay in contact.
We'll meet up later.
117
117
Aline walks up to an imposing, slightly decrepit-looking old
brick building in a bad area of town.
She goes to press the buzzer, but the box is broken, the
wires limply hanging out.
She KNOCKS on the door. No answer.
She stops, annoyed. But then a slight, involuntary smile
comes across her face.
Aline fishes in her purse and pulls out a set of keys. She
finds the key she's looking for and slips it into the lock on
the front door.
She pauses for a moment, then turns the key.
SCENE 118 OMITTED
134
134
A massive, long-abandoned structure built directly against
the face of a mountain. This is the Entrance Hall of
Britannia Mine.
713 AGENTS mill about, setting up perimeter defenses. Humvees
are being positioned as barricades. Large spotlights are
being set up to illuminate the area, with power cables
leading inside the Entrance Hall.
Agents Barr, Cheung, and Marko are part of the team outside,
setting up the defenses.
The 713 helicopter carrying Carnby, Aline, Commander Burke,
and Agents Miles comes down for a landing next to two other
helicopters already sitting in front of the Mine.
The moment the helicopter touches down, Burke leaps out,
barking into his comm-link. Carnby, Aline, and Miles exit
after him.
BURKE (INTO COMM-LINK)
Krash! What are you reading?
134B
Burke leads Carnby, Aline, and Miles to the Entrance Hall.
BURKE (INTO COMM-LINK)
No. Initiate Nine-Alpha on my authority.
But I won't hold my breath. By the time
this clears Defense Council, we'll be
dead or drinking...
71.
135A
Batteries of flash-mines (mines that explode with a burst of
blinding light) set to electromagnetic sensors are being
positioned in wide perimeters around the Entrance Hall.
Automatic gatling guns loaded with chains of glowing bullets
are set up at key points around the area. The gatling guns
are mounted on swiveling robotic bases, able to automatically
turn to face on-coming targets.
AGENT FEENSTRA (mid-30s) tests the motion sensor on one of
the gatling guns with her hand. The gun swivels accurately to
match the movement of her hand.
Agent Feenstra nods to the two AGENTS standing behind the
gatling gun. They tinker with its guidance system.
SCENE 136 OMITTED
1
O
146B
n the side of a mountain rising up over Britannia Mine,
Hudgens and Fischer stand watching the activity below.
(CONTINUED)
76.
CONTINUED:
Jagged bolts of lightning and RUMBLING THUNDER echo around
them. The sound of HISSING comes up around them.
Suddenly, one by one, creatures start fading into visibility
behind them. More and more creatures appear, fading visible,
until there are dozens of xenomorph creatures stretching down
the mountain-side.
Hudgens looks back at his creature army. He lets an evil
smile slip across his face.
All at once, the creatures start leaping down the
mountainside. As they run, they all start fading invisible.
152
152
In the distance, a bright flash goes off. Then another. And
another. The flashes light up the landscape. The inhuman
SQUEALS of the creatures can be heard in the distance.
The helicopters all take off, hovering up into the air above
the Mine.
155
155
The THUNDERING GUNFIRE of the rotating gatling guns fills the
air. Thousands of glowing bullets streak through the night.
The hovering helicopters open FIRE with their side-mounted
gatling guns.
The on-rushing creatures SQUEAL and flash visible as the
gatling guns cut into them with waves of glowing bullets.
(CONTINUED)
81.
CONTINUED:
But Agent Miles' scanner continues to BEEP frenetically. More
and more creatures continue to rush towards them.
The automatic, ground-mounted gatling guns start running out
of ammunition. The sound of GUNFIRE is replaced by the HIGH-
PITCHED WHINE of the turbines rotating without bullets.
The helicopters continue to lay down suppressing FIRE, but
they are also running out of ammo.
181
181
A small Storm Cellar is built into a corner of the
Orphanage's front lawn. The corrugated metal doors are locked
from the outside with a chain and rusty padlock.
A BURST of GUNFIRE blows out from inside the Storm Cellar,
breaking open the padlock. The doors are thrown open.
he sun rises on the horizon.
SCENES 181A, 181AA, 181AB, AND 181B OMITTED
SCENES 181C, 181CC, AND 181D OMITTED
98.
181G
Carnby and Aline dive out of the Shaft just in time. The
geyser of flame erupts out of the Storm Cellar.
The shock-wave knocks them to the ground. A cloud of dust
swirls up out of the Shaft.
- DAY
181H
The Mine shakes from the explosion. Great clouds of dust and
rock fragments billow out of the Entrance Hall.
T
he whole mountain RUMBLES from the detonation.
181J
Aline and Carnby get to their feet outside the Storm Cellar.
Smoke pours out of the Shaft.
But as he sees where he really is, Carnby is stunned. He
stares up at the Orphanage.
CARNBY
They were under us the whole time.
181M
Aline and Carnby step out of the Orphanage. Carnby looks
around, troubled. No one is visible outside the Orphanage.
CARNBY
Something's very wrong...
SCENES 182, 183, 183A OMITTED
184
184
Carnby and Aline walk along a deserted street. The sun rises
above them. It's a beautiful day.
Shops look ready to open. Cars are parked along the streets.
But no one is driving. The neighborhood is empty.
SCENES 185, 186, AND 187 OMITTED
Carnby and Aline walk down a wide street in the middle of the
city's downtown core. No one is visible anywhere.
ALINE
Edward... what's going on?
Carnby looks ashen. They stand in the middle of a downtown
intersection, empty streets stretching out in all directions.
CARNBY
Remember what Hudgens said? I was his
last failure. He said he perfected the
implant process.
(CONTINUED)
ALINE
It can't be...
CARNBY
Then where the hell is everybody? Where's
everybody gone?
We look down at Carnby and Aline, alone in the intersection,
empty streets all around them. We start to float up above
them, getting a wider and wider bird's eye view of the city.
We swoop up higher above them, but still, no one is visible
anywhere in the city. We float up until the entire city
stretches out below us. Nothing moves. No one can be seen.
CARNBY (V.O.) (CONT'D)
Here's what I know. There are two worlds
on this planet. A world of light and a
world of darkness. For millions of years,
these worlds were in balance. But now,
the lights of human civilization burn
everywhere. The dark places are
disappearing. We forced them to come out
of the shadows. Now, it's my job to force
them back in. My name is Edward Carnby.
I'm here to protect you from things you
don't believe in.
We start to drop back down, faster and faster, the ground
rushing towards us. We are descending directly above Carnby
and Aline, standing alone in the empty intersection.
We swoop down right in front of Carnby. His trench-coat blows
in the wind. Aline stands next to him, ready.
Carnby reloads his revolver.
CARNBY (CONT'D)
Aline...
ALINE
Yes Edward?
CARNBY
It's going to be a busy day.
The sun shines down above them, illuminating the deserted
city streets. Carnby's expression is determined.
SCENES 189 AND 190 OMITTED
FADE OUT.
Alone in the Dark
Writers : Elan MastaiMichael Roesch
Genres : ActionHorrorThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb