It's snowing. The Kitchen Maid, shawled, with a lantern, makes her way
across the yard towards the cowshed, a short distance, and pushes open the
frozen door. Laska is at her heels, but is made to stay outside.
3
Firstly, a Moscow street scene, busy with people going about their business,
on foot and in conveyances.
Secondly, Levin approaches L'Angleterre in his new fur-collared coat, top
hat and boots.
17
A sleigh (i.e., a cab) brings Levin.
23
Levin comes out of the grand house where several coaches are waiting. Hum-
bled and angry with himself and the world, he takes off his top hat and
considers putting his fist through it, but jams it back on his head. A horse-
cab comes along. Levin waves it down.
A mean street, an area of poverty and crime. Levin pays off his cab.
TIME--DAY
Vronsky moves closer to the slowing train, scanning the windows going by.
The Guards Officer and the Stationmaster are disconcerted to see the obvious
"private coach" stop seriously short (or long) behind luggage wagons, etc.
STATIONMASTER
I'll see to it.
He hurries away towards the engine.
Oblonsky hurries through, relieved not to be late.
33
Vronsky is saluted by his mother's Major Domo, a tall man in livery with
a cockade.
MAJOR DOMO
Second carriage, Your Excellency. I'll see to
the Countess's luggage and bring it on to the
house.
Vronsky nods, and makes his way towards the second coach, against the
flow of disembarked passengers.
The Stationmaster speaks to the Engine Driver.
The Guards Officer with the bouquet stands uncertainly while arriving
passengers go past him.
The Royal Austrian Honeymooners peer anxiously through the window.
Anna, from her vantage point spots Oblonsky, calls to him. Annushka,
with her bag, comes onto the porch and descends to follow her mistress.
Anna steps down to the platform and embraces Oblonsky. They are delighted
to see each other.
ANNA
(ACCUSINGLY)
You don't look ashamed.
OBLONSKY
(CONTRITE)
I am, I really am.
As Anna turns back, a Railwayman with a hammer for tapping wheels
is in her way. He steps back for her with a bow and a "Madame!" Anna
glances at him and moves past him. The man taps a wheel, making a ring-
ing sound which means the wheel is okay.
As Anna mounts the steps, a Train Guard looks up and down the plat-
form, holding a green flag.
36
Oblonsky-- and everyone still on the platform--is shocked by a dreadful
scream and shouting. The train, having moved a few feet, stops. Oblonsky
hurries towards the scene of the accident, right opposite the gate. The Station-
master overtakes him.
The Wheel-Tapper lies between the wheels, mangled.
Oblonsky joins the horrified onlookers. The Guards Officer arrives, too,
with his bouquet. Then Vronsky arrives. He turns to the Guards Officer.
VRONSKY
Keep your people inside until this has been
cleared up.
Countess Vronsky, Vronsky, Anna and Oblonsky, Oblonsky almost in tears,
come towards the gate. A Porter follows with Anna's large suitcase, hat-
boxes, etc. Annushka has the travelling bag.
OBLONSKY
. . . the sole support of a large family, they
say.
38
ANNA
Can't anything be done for them?
Vronsky glances at her.
VRONSKY
Wait for me, Maman.
Vronsky retraces his steps.
COUNTESS VRONSKY
(TO ANNA)
I've you to thank for that.
She knows her son. Anna hasn't understood, but when Oblonsky looks back
he sees Vronsky with the Stationmaster, taking money from his wallet.
OBLONSKY
What a good fellow . . .
Anna catches on, doesn't like it.
Levin is coming home in a sleigh, driven by his one-eyed coachman, Ignat.
He is huddled under a bearskin blanket. The house is in sight.
The sleigh overtakes a Peasant Woman, Serafina, walking to the house car-
rying a big bundle of willow wands strapped to her back: a strong young
woman with a handsome face. She stops and bows her head. Levin looks at
her. She then looks him in the face.
Laska, barking joyfully, races from the house.
The train "speeds" (35 m.p.h.) through a blizzard.
54
The train clanks to a halt at a small station. Anna (and a few others)
get down from the train. She wears a heavy cloak. The wind blows a few
snowflakes through the station but the roof keeps off the snow. She is glad of
the fresh air. Here and there, men are walking, smoking, laughing together.
She feels better.
A tall outline of a man in a greatcoat and military cap emerges from the
flickering gloom. She catches her breath. He salutes her.
VRONSKY
Can I be of service to you?
ANNA
I didn't know you were . . . Why are you
leaving?
55
VRONSKY
You know why. I have to be where you are.
I can't not.
ANNA
This is wrong. If you're a good man, forget
everything that happened, as I will.
VRONSKY
I'll never forget a single thing about you,
not a word, not a gesture--
ANNA
That's enough!
She climbs the steps on to the porch. At the door to the carriage she pauses.
The encounter has left her feeling elated and frightened.
The train arrives. Vronsky gets down from the train and starts to walk
towards Anna's carriage. His German valet, Franz, runs up to him (from
second class).
VRONSKY
Take the luggage home.
Franz runs back the other way. Vronsky walks on, then stops when he
sees Karenin waiting on the platform, smiling and going forward to hand
Anna down the steps. Kapitonich enters the carriage. Vronsky hesitates.
ANNA
(ANXIOUS)
Is Serozha all right?
56
KARENIN
Oh, is that all I get? Yes, he's quite well.
Vronsky steps forward. Anna knows he's there. She angles herself to avoid
looking at him.
VRONSKY
Did you have a good night?
He bows to Karenin.
ANNA
Yes, quite comfortable. Count Vronsky.
Karenin extends a hand indifferently then dismisses Vronsky, drawing
Anna with him.
KARENIN
I have to get back to the Committee . . .
He walks Anna away.
KARENIN (CONT'D)
Well--were you a success?
ANNA
I? Oh--Dolly and Stiva . . . yes, I think
so . . .
Vronsky watches them go.
57
DAY
A snowy St. Petersburg street. Vronsky arrives home by cab. He has a flat
in an old apartment block.
Anna and Betsy, on a bright snow-white day, are being driven through a
park in Betsy's smart equipage . . . towards a horseman walking towards
them: Vronsky salutes the little carriage as it trots by him. Anna keeps
looking straight ahead. Betsy acknowledges Vronsky's salute.
BETSY
I want to give a small dinner before the opera.
Is there anyone you would like me to ask?
ANNA
Yes . . . Yes, the Metropolitan Bishop of St.
Petersburg.
Betsy laughs.
The Karenin coach arrives. It's Anna arriving at Betsy's. She enters the
house in almost unseemly haste. Several coaches are waiting.
71
The Karenin coach moves to the entrance door, which is held open by the
Doorkeeper.
77
TIME--NIGHT
The two horses are restless in the freezing air. Konrad looks to the open door.
Nobody coming.
TIME--NIGHT
Vronsky opens the carriage door for her. She gets into the coach, he closes the
door. He watches the coach go. His face.
78
Anna arrives, heavily veiled, by cab. She enters the building.
SEX AS BEFORE
In sunshine, a large chunk of ice loses its purchase on winter and goes
floating along a stream of tiny ice floes between grassy banks almost free of
snow, with early aconites showing.
The icy stream flows under a footbridge which has a broken handrail.
Vasili, the steward, is on the bridge with a Carpenter. Levin, on horseback, is
displeased.
LEVIN
I thought that had been done.
VASILI
I gave the order. What can you do with
these people?
Levin rides on, into an expanded prospect of fields and woods, snow on the ground.
84
LATER
When Levin gets in view of the house, he is puzzled by the distant sight of
a three-horse sledge arriving.
Levin and Oblonsky, with Laska, wait with their guns, a few yards apart.
Levin has calmed down.
LEVIN
For you, getting married is . . . a social engage-
ment. Not for me. For me, it's the condition of
personal happiness and living the right way.
I'll never again be carried away by passion. I
renounce it. I'll have to find another way . . .
OBLONSKY
Look out--here they come!
A couple of snipe come drumming over the trees. The men fire simultane-
ously. One snipe falls.
OBLONSKY (CONT'D)
Bad luck!
Oblonsky laughs. Despite himself, Levin laughs too. Laska retrieves the bird.
87
SPRING
A lovers' idyll, by a stream on a warm day. Anna, lightly dressed, smoking
a cigarette, watches Vronsky fill his wineglass from a tethered bottle in the
stream. There is a pony trap which brought them. He comes back to sit by
her. She kisses him.
ANNA
I want you to. I don't care about it.
VRONSKY
You should care. You're not supposed to.
89
ANNA
Pooh! Who says?
VRONSKY
Everybody. Doctors.
She laughs and throws her cigarette into the stream.
ANNA
You're squeamish. You a soldier! Would you
faint?
VRONSKY
Anyway, someone might be watching.
Anna looks all around. Vast emptiness. She lifts a dock leaf to look under
it. She looks up at the sky.
ANNA
But I'm damned anyway.
VRONSKY
I'm not. I'm blessed.
Anna pushes him onto his back and straddles him.
ANNA
You love me.
VRONSKY
Yes.
ANNA
Only me.
90
VRONSKY
No.
ANNA
Apart from Frou-Frou.
VRONSKY
Yes.
Anna holds his face between her hands and works her body on him.
ANNA
But me more than your horse?
VRONSKY
Yes.
ANNA
Are you happy?
VRONSKY
Yes.
ANNA
And you love me?
VRONSKY
Yes.
ANNA
How much?
VRONSKY
This much.
Anna drags the front of her skirts out of her way.
91
ANNA
This much?
VRONSKY
Yes.
ANNA
This much?
VRONSKY
Yes.
ANNA
This much?
VRONSKY
Yes.
ANNA
This much? And this much? And this
much?
VRONSKY
Yes.
ANNA
( FIERCELY)
And . . . this . . . much . . . ?
She falls on him. He strokes her hair.
Her hand comes into view, the index finger bloody. She carefully paints his
lips with it. She kisses his lips clean, and rolls off him onto her back.
92
ANNA (CONT'D)
So this is love. This.
On a garden bench where the noise of the party is quieter, Vronsky and
Alexander talk.
ALEXANDER
I heard you turned down a promotion.
VRONSKY
That was Maman interfering.
ALEXANDER
Yes. And now she's come up with a princess
for you.
(SERIOUSLY)
Alexei--we're brothers, so don't take
offence. Getting married puts the pack on
your back--it leaves your hands free for
climbing the ladder. Getting serious about
a married woman is like carrying your pack
in your arms.
95
VRONSKY
So they talk about me. I'm leaving, Sasha.
ALEXANDER
An assignation?
VRONSKY
Come on, I'll introduce you.
Vronsky with Alexander beside him clucks his tongue at the black opening
of a stable and calls softly for Frou-Frou. There's a stir within and the
mare's head appears. Vronsky opens the door.
ALEXANDER
Beautiful. A man would come to no harm.
Do you think you'll win tomorrow?
VRONSKY
Makhotin's Gladiator is favourite, sixteen
hands--Frou-Frou looks dainty beside
him, but she's got heart. Haven't you, my
darling?
He kisses Frou-Frou.
Vronsky sees Anna before she sees him. He pauses to look at her, struck by
her beauty, full of love for her. She is lost in thought.
96
VRONSKY
Anna.
She has not been expecting him. She is concerned.
ANNA
Alexei, what is it?
He shakes his head: nothing. She comes to him and hides her face in his
breast. He holds her tight, taking her hand and kissing it.
VRONSKY
I couldn't bear not to see you before the race.
She hugs him, kissing his tunic.
VRONSKY (CONT'D)
What were you thinking about?
She continues to hide her face. He lifts her face.
VRONSKY (CONT'D)
Tell me.
ANNA
I'm pregnant.
Vronsky presses her hand to his face.
VRONSKY
Ah . . . My love.
He kisses her brow and her eyes.
97
VRONSKY (CONT'D)
Well, love was never a game to us. Here's an
end to living in corners, existing day to day
on lies. Yes, now we can be together.
ANNA
How can we, Alexei?
VRONSKY
Tell Karenin everything.
ANNA
Do you think my husband will make you a
present of me?
VRONSKY
Leave him.
ANNA
Leave him and be your mistress?
VRONSKY
Yes. Run away.
ANNA
I would never see my son again. The laws
are made by husbands and fathers.
VRONSKY
What, then? I'll never forgive myself for
your unhappiness.
Anna looks into his face.
98
ANNA
Unhappiness? I'm like a starving beggar
who has been given food.
She smiles rapturously.
ANNA (CONT'D)
I unhappy? No, this is my happiness!
She kisses him deeply.
TSARSKOE--DAY
It's a good maze. Anna and Serozha are running, laughing, between the
hedges. It's a game. She is trying to find her way to him, chasing him. A
hedge divides them. Serozha darts away from her, runs into a dead end,
doubles back. She spots him, follows him, and now he has eluded her again.
Serozha finds his way out of the maze and is confronted by Karenin.
KARENIN
How are you, young man? Your tutor
doesn't seem to be in evidence. We'll have a
look at your lesson books.
Anna, coming out of the maze, sees Karenin, recovers.
ANNA
Alexei!--you got away at last. Can you stay?
KARENIN
Why . . . ?
Serozha looks scared to tears. Anna kisses him.
99
ANNA
Go and find Vasily Lukich.
Serozha runs into the house.
ANNA (CONT'D)
I have to change. Princess Betsy is sending
her trap for me. Would you like to come?--
she's taking me to watch the race.
Karenin smiles coldly.
KARENIN
Races, surely. No, I'll come on later, and
then I must get back to town.
Anna returns to the house. She wipes her kissed hand on her skirt.
This is a rough-and-ready racecourse but the venue for a high society occa-
sion, with a grandstand for top people and a grander section, ornamented
for greater comfort, for members of the Imperial family. It is also a fashion
parade for some.
The racecourse itself is an oval approached by a straight. There are nine
fences, water-jumps, etc., of various difficulty. The "jockeys" are officers in
the Guards, the Hussars and other regiments.
Among them is Vronsky, attended by a Trainer who is fussing over Frou-
Frou's bridle and calming her. Vronsky looks with interest at a big power-
ful horse which must be Gladiator, with Captain Makhotin already in the
saddle. Makhotin and Vronsky greet each other with a nod.
100
KARENIN
-- arrives at the races . . . making his way towards the front, smiling,
raising his hat to acquaintances . . . his eyes busy looking for his wife. He
reaches the front and looks up at the Ladies' Stand.
DAY
Anna and Betsy are here, and, not far away, so are Countess Vronsky and
the Princesses Sorokina: the mother is a fading fortyish; the daughter is
eighteen, blonde and pretty.
Below the ladies section is a planked standing area for gentlemen, who also
may stand to watch the races from the stepped aisle of the seated section.
Soldiers, Horse People and Locals watch from the turf.
A race is flowing towards the winning post, with accompanying crowd reac-
tion, but it is clear from Anna's detachment, exchanging chat with Betsy,
that this is not Vronsky's race.
KARENIN
--looks up to the ladies' stand. Betsy smiles at him in greeting, but Anna
seems unaware.
Countess Vronsky appraises the young princess.
COUNTESS VRONSKY
Exquisite creature . . . you really ought to be
the spoil of victory today . . .
The young princess smiles at her. Countess Vronsky turns her glasses towards
the Starting Post.
101
TIME--DAY
. . . Vronsky mounts Frou-Frou. The Riders move to the starting line.
KARENIN
. . . watches Anna who is looking through her glasses towards the Starting
Post while the current race finishes to cheers.
KARENIN, SMILING AROUND, WATCHES AS:--
Anna's anxious attention turns to a horse and rider who fell further
down the course-- and to the ambulance wagon (with a red cross sewn
on it) . . .
Karenin mounts the steps of the aisle, raising his hat to ladies he knows.
Anna ignores him.
On the wooden boards below, where gentlemen are watching, Oblonsky calls
up to Betsy.
OBLONSKY
Princess! A bet! What do you fancy in the
next?
BETSY
Kusolev.
OBLONSKY
I'm on Vronsky. A pair of gloves?
102
BETSY
Done!
(TO ANNA)
Alexander Vronsky . . .
In the aisle at the top of the stand, Karenin watches as:--
Vronsky's brother Alexander, escorting his wife, Varya, bows to Anna and
Betsy, but significantly Varya succeeds in not noticing them.
The riders line up . . . and they're off.
VRONSKY'S POV
The stands and spectators are distant, the first fence coming at him, horses
on either side. His neighbour falls at the fence but Frou-Frou is clear, with
Gladiator half a length in front. The next fence is coming up. Gladiator
and Frou-Frou jump cleanly but a following horse falls badly.
Spectators on either side of Anna and those behind and in front collectively react.
KARENIN SEES THAT:
Anna reacts not at all. Her gaze through her glasses stays unwavering
on Vronsky. Karenin notes this, and from then on his attention is fixed on
Anna. When the horses come opposite the stand, she lowers her glasses and
follows Frou-Frou taking the lead from Gladiator.
103
VRONSKY
-- eases Frou-Frou past Gladiator. The horses take the next jump.
LADIES' STAND
With one hand Anna grips her folded fan.
Karenin's face is a mask as he watches Anna unconsciously half-destroying
it. She raises her glasses.
ANNA'S POV THROUGH GLASSES
Frou-Frou approaches the last fence with Gladiator half a length behind,
on the near side to Anna.
VRONSKY
-- working the reins, rising and falling in rhythm with the horse, looks
ahead to the winning post, and before knowing it he makes an error, losing
the rhythm, dropping back into the saddle and raising the horse's head, just
as Frou-Frou takes off.
ANNA'S POV (THROUGH GLASSES)
Frou-Frou rises, Gladiator rises. Frou-Frou disappears. Gladiator clears
the fence in Anna's foreground. Simultaneously, there are shrieks and
exclamations all around her-- OFF CAMERA-- and the view through
the glasses zigzags in search of Frou-Frou, impeded by horses jumping the
fence.
104
She lowers the glasses and sees Frou-Frou on the ground, rolling over, and
Vronsky on the ground.
COUNTESS VRONSKY
-- sees this, too, her mouth set tight with contempt.
KARENIN
--looks shocked. Almost in the same moment he hears Anna's anguished
cry, conspicuous in the hubbub that follows the crowd's exclamation.
ANNA
Alexei . . . !
KARENIN
I'm here.
This is adroit. He comes down several steps and pushes through to offer his arm,
but Anna has lost control, trying to escape like a bird beating against its cage.
KARENIN (CONT'D)
Would you like to leave?
Anna ignores him, puts her glasses to her eyes, searching out Vronsky.
ON THE COURSE
Vronsky extricates himself from his broken horse and, in terrible recrimina-
tion, tries to pull Frou-Frou to her feet by the reins. Frou-Frou struggles
to get up but her back is broken. Officials, officers, and a doctor have come
running.
105
ANNA
. . . sees an Officer hurrying to the Imperial party to report.
ANNA
Stiva! What are they saying?
OBLONSKY
Vronsky's unhurt--but the horse . . .
Anna relapses into sobs, attempting to hide her face behind her destroyed
fan. Betsy gives Anna her fan.
VRONSKY
--is restrained by an Officer.
OFFICER
Her back's broken!
The Officer takes a pistol from his holster. Vronsky, enraged and in grief,
takes the pistol from him.
KARENIN
--persists with Anna.
KARENIN
I'm asking you . . . if you wish to go . . .
He touches Anna's arm. She jerks it away.
106
ANNA
No, leave me alone.
BETSY
I'll bring her home, Alexei.
KARENIN
(SMILING POLITELY)
Excuse me, Princess, but Anna is not well
and I want her to come with me.
A gunshot is heard from the course. Anna turns her tear-streaked face
towards it.
Anna comes to Vronsky. She is still shaken by the showdown with
Karenin in his coach, but is now overtaken by concern for Vronsky after his
fall.
ANNA
Are you hurt?
Vronsky shakes his head. He is moved by the sight of her, full of love and
desire, but in her embrace he detects something new, a nervous exaltation.
VRONSKY
What's happened?
ANNA
I told him I'm your mistress.
Vronsky lifts her face, strokes her cheek. He waits.
ANNA (CONT'D)
He thinks I can give you up and go on
living.
He embraces her for that, relieved, grateful, loving--understanding that
she is not going to give him up.
110
VRONSKY
No, you cannot.
A prospect: next to a country road, a large expanse of meadow is being
mown forty swathes at a time by forty mowers swinging their scythes almost
in unison.
CLOSER--Levin is suffering but keeping up, bathed in perspiration. His
place is behind an old man, Theodore, who is scything as if without effort.
Just in time for Levin, Theodore calls a halt and takes Levin's scythe to
sharpen it with a whetstone. Levin attracts a few grins and comments.
113
YOUNG PEASANT
Konstantin Dmitrich, you'll know your
rows when the field's all done!
Levin's row has stalks of differing heights between the even swathes on
either side. There is some laughter, but the men are uneasy.
It's time to stop for the day. More tomorrow. The Mowers with their scythes
walk back across the large meadow of cut swathes. From the other direc-
tion, a crowd of Village Women are coming to meet them carrying food and
drink.
A fire has been lit. The Mowers eat their meal in the company of women.
Serafina tends to a cooking pot in the firelight. Levin watches her discreetly.
He has settled down at a discreet distance from the men. His attention
is caught by a grown-up Boy and his young Wife who have chosen to sit
slightly apart. He is charmed by them, watching the girl serve her husband.
Theodore comes to Levin with a jug. Levin takes a swig.
LEVIN
How many mowers is it, Theodore?
THEODORE
Forty-two, master. In your father's time it
was work for two days for thirty men . . .
(SLYLY)
. . . though he never picked up a scythe
himself.
114
LEVIN
The men don't like me for it.
THEODORE
They like what they're used to.
LEVIN
It settles me.
THEODORE
How is that, master?
LEVIN
When I'm mowing, I don't ask myself why
I'm here.
THEODORE
You're here to be master, Konstantin Dmi-
trich, to be your father's son, and father to a
son who will be master after you, as it has
always been by the grace of God.
LEVIN
My father owned you, Theodore. My grand-
father owned your father. Owned you like
chattels, to be bought and sold. Was that by
the grace of God?
THEODORE
It was. Those were good times when your
father had the keeping of us. That's my
youngest you were looking at there. His
young life is perilous now since the Free-
dom came and work must be found.
115
LEVIN
It's true I was looking at him.
THEODORE
(LAUGHS)
At his wife too, I dare say.
Levin is abashed, found out.
LEVIN
They look happier than I've ever been. Is it
living simply that I'm looking for?
Night under the stars. Some of the men have gone, some have settled in for
the night. The cooking fire is burning out. Levin remains where he was,
watching, thinking: drawn to "the simple life."
Levin wakes . . . woken by hoofbeats and the jingle of harness.
Levin sees a coach coming towards him. The coach comes nearer, leather
boxes strapped to the roof.
Levin sees that a young woman is looking out of the side window, holding
on to the white ribbons of her bonnet. He sees that it is Kitty, on her way to
Ergoshovo. (Princess Shcherbatsky is also inside, dozing.)
The coach passes on, leaving Levin lovelorn, the dawn light on him. The
sight of Kitty has turned him round again.
116
A cab brings Vronsky. The Karenin coach is waiting outside. As Vronsky
approaches the door, it opens and Kapitonich comes out with a folded rug.
Kapitonich is wrong-footed by seeing him. Karenin comes out of the door,
into the gaslight. When he sees Vronsky he hesitates for a fraction but con-
tinues. Kapitonich is holding open the door of the coach. Vronsky bows,
Karenin, expressionless, touches his hat and gets into the coach, taking the
rug. Vronsky walks into the house as the coach moves off.
WINTER AGAIN
Oblonsky arrives outside his office building in a cab. He enters.
Karenin walks away from the Oblonsky house. He lifts his face to meet the
snowflakes. He looks tortured. Snow melts on his face like tears. He takes
from his wallet a telegram.
CLOSE UP TELEGRAM:
I BEG YOU TO COME. I NEED YOUR FORGIVENESS.
I AM DYING.
KARENIN
Die, then.
He stands in the snow, uncertain.
133
Two coaches, each with considerable luggage, have a rendezvous, one coach
on the bridge.
Anna gets out of her coach and runs the few yards to Vronsky's coach. He
opens the door for her.
TIME--DAY
The sleigh brings Levin and Kitty home through deep snow all around. The
house comes into view.
SLEIGH
They have been on honeymoon travels, attested by hotel labels on the lug-
gage. Kitty, eager and anxious, looks at the approaching house. Not too
bad. Levin takes her hand. She smiles at him, to calm him.
Agafia and Vasili come out on the porch. The house has been painted, the
window frames smartened up, and paper flowers are tied to the posts of
the porch. The sleigh pulls up. Levin carries Kitty through the snow to the
porch. Agafia bobs. Vasili bows.
LEVIN
This is Agafia, and Vasili, the steward . . .
My wife, Ekaterina Alexandrovna Levin.
KITTY
I am very pleased to meet you both.
Kuzma sidles by with a bow and goes to take the luggage from the sleigh.
LEVIN
And that was Kuzma. Come inside!
152
VASILI
Careful--door's still a bit . . .
(to Levin's look)
it's all right, it'll be dry tomorrow . . .
The sleigh draws up, bringing a Priest.
157
The snow is almost gone. Nikolai's grave has flowers strewn on the mound.
Pava's yearling and several more calves, delirious with release, mill through the
yard with the herd, to pasture, with a Herdsman and Laska urging them on.
Masha is leaving, alone behind the Coachman. She sits quietly and doesn't
look back. Levin and Kitty watch her drive away.
KITTY
You're such an expert on love, Kostya . . .
why didn't you know it when you saw it?
Anna is looking into the display window of a toy shop. She is excited, glow-
ing. She enters the shop.
It's very early morning. The street is not awake. A hired cab brings Anna
to her former home. She is heavily veiled, and carries the wrapped parcel
from the toy shop. The cab is to wait for her. She rings the doorbell.
A sleepy Servant opens the big wooden door.
ANNA
I'm here to see Sergei Alexeyich.
The young Servant doesn't know her. Anna steps past him, pushing money
into his hand.
Vronsky's cab draws up outside the brightly lit, deserted opera house. He
alights.
High summer. Heat and dust.
The Sorokina Coach draws up outside the door. The coach with its crest
and the Coachman's livery (a bright yellow cockade) are highly distinctive.
The train arrives at a small station.
Anna steps down from the train. The platform is well populated by people
waiting to board the train or to meet the arriving passengers. There is an
energy about the people-- shouting, laughter, movement. Porters shout for
custom. A couple of Young Men seem to be laughing rudely directly at her,
but they pass by, ignoring her.
Anna pauses, bewildered, lost, not knowing what to do next.
She sees the Sorokina Coachman on the platform, recognising his distinctive
livery, a cockade in his hat.
ANNA
Are you waiting for the Princess Sorokina?
192
COACHMAN
No, Your Excellency, both princesses are at
the house of Countess Vronsky. I'm waiting
FOR HIM--
Anna turns back, agitated, expecting Vronsky to appear, but what comes
is a Footman carrying three hatboxes and a large box from a dress shop.
Anna walks away, along the platform, impeded by people going by her,
aware that some are staring at her as she passes. A Boy selling drinks grins
at her. A little group of Ladies and Children meeting a bespectacled man
off the train are laughing and chattering but fall silent and look at her. She
increases her pace. She hurries away towards the far end of the platform.
Beyond her, a goods train is slowly approaching. Between her and the train,
two Maidservants are walking towards her. They turn their heads to look
at her, remarking on her dress.
MAIDSERVANT
Look at that lace on her . . .
There is a rough bench near the end of the platform. Anna reaches it and
sits down. The two girls turn again to look back at her, and are struck
by the sight of Anna sitting alone in profile. The goods train reaches her
and the first wagon goes past her. The two girls stop and watch, vaguely
puzzled by her.
As they watch, the beautiful woman on the bench gets up and walks the
few steps to the edge of the wooden platform and into the path of the train,
disappearing from view between the wheels of one of the wagons.
CLOSE--A SCYTHE CUTS A SWATHE THROUGH
STANDING HAY.
193
--lying separate against a rail, is clipped by a rolling train-wheel and
knocked aside, spilling its contents . . .
A scythe cuts a swathe through standing hay.
It's nearly the last of the hay. The scythe is being swung by Theodore,
known from last year. He is one of a dozen Mowers. Levin is among them,
wielding his scythe. They have almost reached the end of the field, where the
last of the hay is being pitchforked up on to the last piled cart. Theodore's
daughter-in-law, now visibly pregnant, is still adept with a pitchfork.
It's a lowering thundery day at the end of summer.
LEVIN
I'll be buying in feed before winter's over.
THEODORE
(SCYTHING)
Well, you don't press people hard, but you
live rightly, for your soul, not your belly.
LEVIN
My soul! What's that? I know what my
belly is. How do we know what's rightly?
I believe in reason.
194
THEODORE
Reason? And was it reason that made you
chose a wife?
LEVIN
(PAUSE)
No.
THEODORE
You're a great one for reasoning, Konstantin
Dmitrich, but what's rightly is outside your
mathematic--that's what's rightly about it!
This stops Levin's scythe. He is illumined.
Theodore swings the scythe again. Levin walks away, gives his scythe to a
Labourer by the cart, and keeps walking. He quickens his pace.
The first drops of rain, few and heavy, arrive.
TIME--DAY
Cries of alarm and laughter burst from a Mushrooming Party approaching
the house. Children run ahead, the adults walk faster, then run, helping
with baby carriages and picking up small children and baskets of mush-
rooms . . . urged on from the porch by Agafia.
Levin, coming from the hay field, joins the rout.
195
The grown-ups are: Levin, Oblonsky, Dolly, the Oblonsky Nurse, Prince
and Princess Shcherbatsky.
The children are: Tanya, Grisha, Masha, Lili and Vasili. Dolly carries
her youngest. The children are eighteen months older than when we first
saw them.
PORCH
The heavens open as everyone gets under cover.
LEVIN
Where's Ekaterina Alexandrovna?
AGAFIA
It's all right, the mistress is giving Mitya
his bath.
It is evident from her tone that Kitty and Agafia have made it up long ago.
The storm has passed. Everything drips.
Oblonsky comes from inside and lights a cigar. Indistinctly seen and heard
through the window, the Mushrooming Party occupies the dining room.
Oblonsky smokes thoughtfully, melancholy.
197
SPRINGTIME
Baby Anya, old enough to stagger on her feet, wavers through wild flowers
half her height. She falls over, almost disappearing.
This is being watched, with a mixture more pleasure than pain, by Kar-
enin. He is in early retirement, sitting with a book in a garden seat, dressed
comfortably under a straw hat. There is the SOUND OVER of people
playing croquet.
Serozha, aged ten, enters his view, going to Anya to haul her upright, and
keeping hold of her hand as she staggers on. Karenin's pleasure increases
slightly.
OVER this, the growing SOUND of a battlefield.
CLOSE
Vronsky, in an unfamiliar uniform, sabre pointing forward, is mounted at
full gallop with the SOUND of the charge all around him in the smoke and
noise of guns. Something heavy and invisible with its own SOUND--like
the flap of an awning--takes him from his horse into the air and gone,
leaving spouts of blood poised for an instant in the smoke.
NATURAL SOUND
198
Serozha picks up Anya like a parcel under his arm and walks on with her
towards the indistinct figures of Croquet Players strolling in the heat haze,
a couple of parasols held aloft.
FADE TO BLACK.
Anna Karenina
Writers : Tom Stoppard
Genres : Drama
User Comments
Back to IMSDb