4
They come out of a house that is lost in the hills, climb
into a Bugatti sports car that the man starts by rubbing two
wires together, and speed off.
5
5
The car speeds along the road. Its occupants turn round to
check they aren't being followed.
3.
6
7
The hero, the young woman and the dog come to a halt in the
Bugatti on the air field, by a telegraph pole whose wires
lead...to a watch tower.
In the watch tower, a radio receptor is vibrating. A soldier
approaches, listens and suddenly understands! He grabs hold of
his gun and goes out onto the air field, only to find the
fugitives! He tries to shoot at them as he draws closer, but
the hero manages to throw an airplane propeller at him, before
climbing inside where the woman and dog are waiting for him.
The airplane begins to move.
The soldier shoots.
The airplane is positioning itself on the runway, while the
soldier continues to fire!
The aircraft gains speed.
The soldier is still shooting, but too late, as the heroo pulls
back the joystick, and the airplane takes to the sky...
The soldier is furious, but the hero is all smiles as he looks
back towards the ground and shouts something.
Title card: Free Georgia forever!!!
The airplane flies away into the evening sky.
8
8
A little later in the night, still at the controls, the man is
fighting not to fall asleep. Behind him, the women is sleeping,
the dog is lying in her arms. Suddenly she is awoken by
explosions happening close by! Pandemonium! The man doesn't
understand it either, he tries to pick up altitude, but quickly
notices that the explosions are in fact pretty and
inoffensive. He consults a calendar dial on the control panel
that shows it is July 14th, immediately understands, and
bursts into laughter.
Title card: We've arrived, welcome to France!!!
4.
As the music picks up the tune of The Marseillaise, the
airplane flies away through the exploding fireworks...
The words "The End" appear on the screen.
9
11
Outside, we are in front of a typically American movie theater
decked out with all the accessories of a grand premire. The
entrance is lit up, there are crowds gathered on the sidewalk,
cops are guarding the red carpet with a cordon of bodies, etc.
George comes out, causing the crowds, mainly young women, to
press forwards - and the photographers' flashes to spark into
life. The cops are struggling to maintain control of the
situation as George poses for the photographers and waves at
his many fans.
6.
In the crowd, a young woman right at the front is staring at
him in rapture. She drops her bag and, as she bends to pick it
up, a swell in the crowd pushes her underneath the arms of the
policeman in front of her, out of the crowd and into George.
She stares at him, more in love than ever, delighted to be
there. The police wait for someone to give orders. George
doesn't quite know what to do. Nobody moves. The young woman
finally bursts out laughing, which, after a moment of shock,
causes George to laugh too, thus placating the cops and tacitly
signaling to the photographers that they can take pictures of
the scene. The flashes seem to lend the woman self-confidence
who, in a very carefree manner, begins to clown about in front
of them. George is delighted at the sight, by the whole scene
and, realizing this, the young woman steals a kiss. Flash. The
image becomes static, then dissolves into the printed picture
on the front page of "The Hollywood Reporter" newspaper, along
with three other pictures of the scene and the headline WHO'S
THAT GIRL?
12
13
Thirteen white letters placed on a hillside.
HOLLYWOODLAND.
Below, in town, a bus.
7.
14
15
She goes through the main gates of Kinograph Studios, and
heads towards where they hire extras.
In a courtyard, fifty-odd people are waiting, some sitting on
wooden crates, others standing. There are mums with kids,
guys with animals, men dressed as cowboys, etc. Peppy is
among them, sitting next to a man of about sixty who is
dressed in a highly stylized fashion. His job is obviously
that of a butler. Peppy proudly shows him the picture in the
newspaper. The man leans to take a closer look, unfolds the
newspaper, sees the headline, smiles and then folds it back
up again and returns it to Peppy text-side-up, highlighting
the headline: Who's that girl ?
Peppy is a bit annoyed to have been put in her place, but
deep down she knows he's right. Nobody knows who she is. She
puts the newspaper away.
A man who visibly works for the studio, some assistant or
other, comes into the courtyard, climbs on a crate and makes
an announcement.
Title card: Contemporary film!
Five girls who can dance!
All the men who had pressed forwards turn on their heels,
leaving the assistant surrounded only by women. The man says
something to one girl, who begins to dance. He motions to her
that it's ok and she heads off towards the wardrobe section.
He does the same with a second girl and she gets hired too.
Then it's Peppy's turn. She puts a lot of energy into a few
top class tap steps, impressing the guy to such an extent
that he smiles admiringly then signals that she's hired.
Full of self-assurance that her lucky day has come, Peppy
heads off towards wardrobe too; swinging, her hips as she
pauses in front of the butler.
8.
Title card: The name is Miller.
Peppy Miller!
She finishes with an exaggerated wink, before walking on,
leaving behind the impassive butler.
16A
16
Later, George, in a luxurious car driven by his chauffeur,
arrives at the Kinograph studios with his dog. The guard at the
entrance smiles broadly at them and waves.
17
35
...and bursts out into the courtyard of the studio that is now
suddenly deserted and silent. In front of him a feather eddies
slowly to the ground, carried by the breeze. It finally lands,
making a completely abnormal and disproportionate noise like
that of a building crashing to the ground in slow motion.
George screams, but again his cry is silent.
36
The car goes through the studio gates. There's nobody there.
George gets out. He goes into the courtyard. There's nobody
there either.
40
41
Outside in the deserted courtyard, a feather eddies towards
the ground, carried by the breeze. George is watching it drift
to the ground when suddenly a gust of wind sends it soaring
back into the sky. George follows it with his eyes and notices
a man crossing between two sets. He looks like some kind of set
hand or assistant; a working man in any case. George calls to
him. The two men draw close and George asks him what's
happening. The man takes the day's newspaper out of his pocket
and hands it to George before walking off. George reads:
Kinograph Studios stop all silent productions to work
exclusively on talkies.
42
51
In the street, at the entrance to a movie theater, George sees
a large "Beauty Spot" film poster. The poster shows Peppy close
up, wearing a magnificent and jauntily positioned chapka over
one eye. She is incredibly stylish but in no way vampish, more
the image of a young comedy debut... George looks at her, Peppy
seems to be smiling at him. He smiles back. Then his smile
becomes strained. He's noticed something. The two theater
employees are sticking a banner over the poster that reveals
the release date of Beauty Spot - it's also October 25th.
52
60
Outside, George comes out still smoking his cigarette. On the
sidewalk, people are cheerfully waiting in line. George walks
up the line and comes to a movie house that's playing the
"Beauty Spot" talking movie. A huge poster depicts Peppy and
the people in the line seem excited and delighted to be going
to see the film. It's visibly a success. George takes it on the
chin.
61
64
George is wearing shorts and an explorer's hat. He is sinking
in sinking sand. The young woman is screaming and the dog
barking.
23.
The Africans are panicking but there's nothing anyone can do.
George stops struggling, and looks deep into the eyes of the
young woman. He says gently:
Title card: Farewell, Norma.
I never loved you...
It's obvious he's only saying that so that she can forget him
and move on with her life, but it doesn't wash and the young
woman weeps all the more, terribly moved by this last
sacrifice on his part.
(63) In the balcony, Peppy is speechless and her face
impassive.
(64) On screen, George and the young women exchange a last
glance as George's face gradually sinks into the sand.
(63) Next to Peppy, the young man sits watching her. She sees
sad.
(64) On screen, George has disappeared into the mire. Only
one hand stays in the air for several seconds more in a
tortured pose, that of a dying man trying to hold on to the
wind.
(63) Peppy's companion seems to find the film far too long
and doesn't understand why they haven't already left.
(64) The hand has disappeared. The young woman is in a state
of shock, rigid with a look of horror on her face. She is no
doubt about to be put to certain death. The dog turns round
and walks off with head and tail lowered...
The End appears on the screen.
(63) Peppy seems moved. She is shaking her head from side to
side.
65
65
Evening has fallen on the town. It's raining. On the ground
lies an old page from a newspaper that bears a picture of
George. A man's feet trample the picture.
66
67
He opens the door. It's Peppy. She immediately notices that
George is drunk. Her smile tenses a little.
Title card: I wanted to talk, I...
George looks at her. She continues.
Title card: I saw Tears of Love.
George nods, and answers.
Title card: And so you've come to get your money back?
She smiles stiffly, not knowing how to react.
He continues.
Title card: Too much face-pulling?
She stops smiling because it's not funny at all. It's bitter,
even. There's an embarrassed silence. Softly, she tries to
explain.
Title card: About last night...
She stops because George is not looking at her anymore. He's
watching the arrival of the young, smiling, handsome and
wholesome man who is with Peppy. George bears a melancholy
smile.
Title card: You're right. Make way for youth...
The young man shakes George's hand. He's obviously a nice
lad, and very polite.
Title card: I'm so happy to meet you. My Dad just loves you.
He says it very nicely, with no ulterior motive, but George
is cut to the quick. The comment wounds him and Peppy
notices. She cuts short the meeting by smiling and upping the
cheerfulness stakes, as though to kid George she hasn't
noticed any embarrassment or perceived anything that might
have shocked or hurt him during their encounter.
Title card: OK! Well, we'll be off now.
I'll call you soon.
Bye!
George smiles politely. She leaves, taking the handsome jock
with her. George watches them leave. As does his dog, who
sits with his head and ears hanging low as though very
disappointed. George watches Peppy walking away, then steps
forwards and sits down on the steps leading up to the house.
25.
As she gets into the car, Peppy seems surly, unhappy even,
for the first time. She turns her back on her companion.
Title card: Take me home. I'd like to be alone.
George watches the car leave, then goes and sits on a bench
next to the front door. But the bench breaks and George finds
himself on the ground next to the dog. George remarks evenly
to Jack:
Title card: See, could be it just wasn't my day...
FADE TO BLACK.
68
68
In the rain, a worker is taking down letters from the facade
of a theater. Of Tears of Love, only the word Tears remains.
69
70
Alternate shots of three or four film posters and frames from
them which illustrate Peppy's rising fame. Her name moves
higher up the posters and into bigger letters. The films are
called "The Rookie", "The Brunette ", "The Girl Next Door" and,
finally, "On the Roof ".
71
71
OMITTED
72
76
Once outside, the chauffeur doesn't move. He stays next to the
car. George watches him through the window. The chauffeur
still doesn't budge. George pulls the curtains.
77
77
In the evening, George looks out between the curtains, the
chauffeur is still there. George turns on his heels and gets
into his Murphy bed.
78
79
Outside, the chauffeur is still in the same position.
80
83
They leave at the same time. The man crosses the street, we
follow him.
He gets into a car. Peppy is sitting in the back. She's alone
and watching George walk off with his unsteady gait. She's sad.
The man casts a glance to ask her what he should do next.
Peppy, with a forced smile, motions that they can leave. As the
man starts up the motorcar, George is walking away. The car
sets off and overtakes him. Peppy does not turn round. She's
crying.
84
87
Peppy Miller is "The Guardian Angel". It's a huge poster on the
faade of a movie theater. George goes inside. With Jack.
88
90
George is playing Zorro. He performs stunt after stunt and the
close ups show his devastating smile to its best advantage. In
fact, it's an extract from The Mark of Zorro with Douglas
Fairbanks, into which we'll insert close ups of Jean we've shot
ourselves.
91
92
The dog comes out of the house and makes a dash for the
sidewalk as fast as he can.
(91) In the room, among the flames and the smoke, George -
now breathless - picks one of the reels and tries to turn
round. He collapses, still holding on to the can.
93
93
Jack spots a cop at a junction. He takes hold of the cop's
trouser leg with his teeth and tries to pull him towards
George's house. The policeman doesn't understand, however, and
pushes it away with his foot. The dog persists and barks but
the cop just wants to be left in peace.
(91) George is suffocating on the floor. The level of smoke
is getting ever lower and is slowly covering his face.
32.
(93) Jack barks louder and louder. The policeman feels
uncomfortable. A woman is watching the scene inquisitively.
Not knowing what to do, the cop motions to the dog to be
silent and threatens it with two fingers, just like George
miming a pistol. Jack collapses and plays dead. The cop has
no idea what's happened, he crouches down and touches the dog
to see if it's all right. Jack wakes up and goes to leave but
stops immediately to show the cop he wants to take him with
him. The cop still doesn't understand, it's the woman who
tells him what he must do. The cop seems to understand, has a
moment of doubt, and then starts following the dog. Jack
encourages him to go faster, but the cop resists to begin
with. Little by little though, as though realizing the
seriousness of the situation, he speeds up. More and more,
94
94
until he finally arrives flat out at George's home. The cop
sees the smoke coming out of the house. He runs into the smoke.
95
96
They come out the house. George is still clutching the reel. A
crowd has formed, people recognize him. One woman feels sorry
for him, a man runs for help. George is unconscious.
FADE TO BLACK.
97
99
The car pulls into the hospital courtyard.
100
102
An ambulance takes George, still unconscious, to Peppy's
house. Jack is with him.
34.
It's a large, beautiful house, very expensive and very
Hollywood. But it's also very inviting.
103
110
From the window, we see the chauffeur get into the car and
drive off. We recognize the car as being the one that belonged
to George.
(109) At the window, George watches him leave. Then he seems
to have an idea or, more exactly, an intuition.
111
114
George is in the street wearing his burnt suit and damaged
shoes. He is shirtless. With Jack by his side, he walks along
the sidewalk. There are a few other people walking along. About
twenty yards ahead of him a man is begging. He holds out his
hand to passers-by. George approaches and, when there are no
other passers-by between him and George, the beggar glances at
him and lowers his hand. He doesn't raise it as George
approaches. George stops in front of him and looks at him, but
the beggar motions to him to scram. George continues on his
way. For that moment at least, he has become one of them.
He buttons up the collar of his suit in an attempt to hide the
fact that he doesn't have a shirt then, heads off and loses
himself in the crowd. Some distance later, he stops to check
his reflection in a shop window. The image he sees is that of a
bum. It's even more striking because the in the window there is
a young male mannequin wearing a tux, top hat and white scarf.
The image of the mannequin and that of George are superimposed.
A cop comes up to George and begins talking to him in a
friendly manner. He speaks but we don't know what about. There
is not Title card. George visibly has no idea what the cop is
talking about. The cop seems to be talking about nothing
important, just chatting... He talks and talks... George
doesn't understand what he's saying, and doesn't understand
why he's talking to him. He's lost.
Title card: What did you say?
The cop smiles, carries on talking, then stops. He thinks
he's talking to a madman. He doesn't persist, merely sizes
George up and, once he's decided that he's harmless, the cop
walks off. George, totally bewildered by the incident, seems
to lose his grip on himself a little more.
115
118
She runs out of the house and over to the car, but the
chauffeur isn't there. She honks the horn to call him but
there's no response. She honks the horn again, then, not
wanting to wait any longer, and seeing the keys on the
dashboard, she gets behind the wheel, starts the engine and
pulls off in a series of kangaroo hops. It's obvious that she
doesn't know how to drive all that well, but still goes at full
speed - more or less successfully. Just as she passes through
the gate, the chauffeur turns up. Too late. He sees her drive
away.
119
119
Peppy is driving as fast as she can through town, but she's
pretty reckless and almost causes an accident.
120
121
Outside, we see Peppy's car has rammed into the gate and is
still shuddering. Peppy didn't brake in time, but she doesn't
care. She jumps out the car and runs into the house.
122
