It's a hot Sunday afternoon and the complex of shops and a
cafe in St. Germain-des-Pres is bustling with young clientele.
Inside the cafe, there is a second floor with a balustrade
overlooking the tables inside. Outside, there are tables set
up on the sidewalk.
JACK SHAW, a tall, husky American in his late thirties, sits
at one of the front tables outside. He reads the International
Herald Tribune. The headline is, "Terrorists Seize Embassy,
Issue Demands And Threaten Attacks." Jack sips his espresso.
ANGLE ON CARLOS
dressed as in preceding scene. He enters. Just then Jack
looks up and sees him. For an instant, Carlos looks at Jack,
tenses just slightly. Jack looks back at his paper paying no
attention. Carlos pulls out a cigarette, pats his pockets
for a light. Then he crosses to Jack.
CARLOS
Pardon monsieur...
He mimes flicking a match and Jack looks for a match. He's
out. He offers the lit end of his cigarette. Carlos cups
Jack's hand.
CARLOS
Merci.
He crosses away from Jack, smiling and goes inside the cafe.
Jack follows him absentmindedly, tracking his progress through
the windows, though his view is obscured somewhat by
reflections of the street. Carlos steps casually to the
railing overlooking the tables inside as Jack sees the double
image of Carlos and the reflected street scene. Carlos leans
over, pulls the pin from an M26 grenade, and lets the "spoon"
come off in his hand. We HEAR the timing fuse hiss as Carlos
nonchalantly counts to himself.
CARLOS
(counting)
One thousand one... one thousand
two... one thousand three...
ANGLE ON - JACK
He looks up just in time to see Carlos drop the grenade
casually into the crowd below. Their eyes lock for a beat;
then Carlos smiles, turns and bounds away. Jack's eyes widen
in horror. He gets up, about to cry out a warning.
CUT TO:
ANGLE ON
the crowd below as the grenade EXPLODES, filling the air
with smoke and flying glass, its metal ripping through flesh
and bone. People are wounded, bloody and writhing in pain
and screaming in panic.
ANGLE ON JACK
disheveled, covered with the shattered glass of the window,
but not but not seriously hurt, he struggles to his feet. He
looks around for Carlos who has vanished, now realizing who
he was. As he looks around, he sees a SMALL BOY staring at
his left arm with heart-rending disbelief.
The boy has no hand.
CUT TO:
There are throngs of ambulances, police and military
personnel, wounded survivors are being tended to. All is
confusion and off in a corner we SEE Jack, standing with a
man in a suit. The man's name is DU FOLTIERE. He shows Jack
an I.D.
DU FOLTIERE
Du Foltiere, Monsieur, intelligence
liaison officer. DST. My understanding
is that you are the Deputy Chief of
Station, CIA, Paris, and that you
witnessed by coincidence this attack.
JACK
That's right.
DU FOLTIERE
And you have told my subordinate
that you recognized the terrorist as
Carlos?
Du Foltiere pulls out a small notebook to take notes.
JACK
That's not what I told him. I said
he recognized me. Afterwards I
realized who he was. By then it was
too late.
DU FOLTIERE
(writing in his
notebook)
Ah yes... The deputy chief of station
did not recognize him... But he
recognized you.
JACK
I wasn't the one wearing the disguise.
DU FOLTIERE
Yes of course... But then how are
you sure it was him?
JACK
How often do you see someone holding
a live grenade listening to the fuse?
Besides, the arrogant son of a bitch
bastard smiled at me.
SUPERIMPOSED: Vienna, December 21, 1975
It's a cold Sunday morning with a light snow just beginning
to fall when SIX YOUNG MEN and ONE WOMAN enter the
headquarters of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries -- a modern, seven-story block of concrete and
glass. They all carry Adidas sport bags over their shoulders.
Their leader, Carlos, with dark beret and sunglasses, sports
a long white raincoat -- the kind that was very much in
fashion that winter. Next to him is KOJ, a Japanese terrorist
and his most trusted Lieutenant.
CARLOS
(singing)
I shot the sheriff...
But I did not shoot the deputy...
CUT TO:
We SEE an Air France jet liner touch down on the runway.
Jack comes down the steps of the just-landed jet. The blizzard
whips around his face as he walks down the stair unit and
onto the tarmac, pulling his overcoat up around him.
EST.
On the tarmac, an Austrian Airways DC9. TV cameras, lights,
generators are set up in front of the plane, sending beams
and pools of yellow light into the darkness and the snow
which swirls all around as a pool of REPORTERS stands ready
to record whatever is about to go down. Among a small group
of OFFICIALS is Jack Shaw. Everyone's eyes are on an
approaching yellow curtained bus.
ON BUS
As it gets closer, we can detect through its windshield a
white raincoat and a black beret. Carlos is standing by the
driver with a machine-pistol in one hand and a grenade in
the other.
CLOSE - JACK
His eyes strain to get a better look at the terrorist, his
arm down at his side.
BACK TO SCENE
As the bus parks by the DC 9, Carlos jumps out and waves to
the media. Not the customary V-sign, but the wave of a
celebrity... The hostages then, under their captors' guns,
file compliantly out of the bus and onto the plane. A line
of exhausted, bleary-eyed middle-aged men in expensive suits
and in need of a shave. Carlos however, is as fresh, alert
and energetic as the morning of the attack. And he's
definitely savoring the moment.
ON JACK
Tense, he tries to be inconspicuous as he leans towards
Mickens.
JACK
(whispering)
I think it's him, but I can't be
sure. Not with those dark glasses
and the beard...
ON CARLOS
Everyone on board, he too climbs the mobile steps and
disappears into the plane. Suddenly, he reemerges and comes
down to where the officials and Jack stand. As Jack watches
him intently, he faces the MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR. In the
window of the plane we SEE Koj holding a grenade to the
pilot's head.
ANGLE ON CARLOS
CARLOS
Minister of the Interior, I
presume...?
The distinguished-looking man, who looks a bit like Kurt
Waldheim, nods.
CARLOS
I'm sorry this had to happen in
Austria. We have no quarrel with
your government.
His eye catching Jack, he stops in mid-sentence. A devilish
smile crosses his lips as he turns towards him. He pulls a
cigarette out and crosses right over to Jack, up close and
as they say, very personal. The snowflakes whirl
surrealistically around them as the two stand face to face.
CARLOS
Pardon monsieur...
He mimes flicking a match. He takes off his glasses and looks
at Jack and smiles.
CARLOS
We were never really properly
introduced Mister Shaw. My name is
Carlos.
With a cunning, mocking smile he extends his hand out to
shake Jack's. Jack stares at him, ever so slowly beginning
to raise his hand. With that move he knows the gun will come
slapping into his palm and he will be able to take Carlos
out no matter what the cost.
JACK
(smiling)
Eat shit and die slow.
His hand starts rising. In another second the gun will spring
into it. Just then we hear:
MICKENA (O.S.)
Jack, no!
Jack turns to look at Mickens. Mickens indicates the
photographers.
MICKENA
You don't want your picture taken
shaking his hand.
Jack is momentarily confused. He has turned to Mickens
thinking perhaps he was calling out a warning and now the
moment for the shot has passed. He turns back to Carlos who
shrugs and steps over to the Austrian minister so that the
Minister now is between Jack and Carlos and the shot is lost.
CARLOS
(to the minister)
As I was saying, I'm sorry about the
loss of life. And thank you for your
cooperation.
Once again he sticks out his hand. Only this time, as the
cameras roll, Austria's Minister of the Interior shakes the
hand of the archterrorist in what will go down in history as
the "handshake of shame."
ON JACK
His eyes tell it all.
We begin with an ESTABLISHING SHOT of Al Aksa Mosque and the
Mosque of Omar in Jerusalem. These are the two most famous
landmarks in Jerusalem's Old City skyline.
OVER THIS WE SUPER:
JERUSALEM - AUGUST
CAMERA then pans and tilts down and we are above the Western
Wall looking down on the bobbing black hats of Hassidic Jews,
the knitted skullcaps of more modern Orthodox, here and there
the olive shirt of Army uniform with M16 or Galil assault
rifle that sways in prayer as well.
CROSS DISSOLVE:
To the Jerusalem stone paving stones that make up the square
in front of the wall as we glide across the intersecting
lines of paving stones set one next to the other until a
glowing cigarette comes into view and then a foot which
crushes it out. There should be something in this sequence
that is reminiscent of our opening, a foreboding that just
as the cracks in the Parisian paving stones led us to Carlos
once before, perhaps these new stones will lead us once again
to some act of terror.
NEW ANGLE
to reveal a man standing in silhouette, the man who has just
crushed out the cigarette. We cannot see his face because he
has a camera to his eye.
NEW ANGLE - POV THROUGH THE CAMERA LENS
Through the lens of the camera just established we SEE an
old Rabbi praying at the wall. CLICK! The shutter captures
the shot.
BACK TO SCENE
The man in silhouette now lowers the camera and we SEE that
he is CARLOS! There is no mistake even though the nose,
perhaps is a little different and this time he is clean-
shaven, it is still Carlos the Jackals. He smiles slightly.
Busy photographing it, Carlos doesn't seem to notice the TWO
ARABS who watch him surreptitiously. He walks in front of
soldiers who laugh and look at us POV Carlos.
ANGLE
Carlos reaches into his pocket. Is he perhaps going for a
grenade to toss at these soldiers? We build tension as he
pulls out instead, another roll of film and with great
determination, we have the CLICK of the door of the camera
to enhance our music beat as tension builds. Surely it can't
be long till Carlos does something awful.
Carlos walks towards the Suq, working his way through the
crown from the Damascus gate as we reveal more soldiers in
the foreground, surveilling the area.
From the POV of the two Arabs following him, we SEE Carlos
lost, or pretending to be, as he ambles along through the
Suq, past all sorts of vendors hawking their wares. Heads of
fish are cut off with the swift slash of a knife in one stall,
freshly skinned lambs hang by their feet in another. Carlos,
still looking lost, approaches a street vendor hawking rosary
beads. We SEE them talk but cannot hear their dialogue.
Carlos walks on.
A group of children play an impromptu game of soccer.
NEW ANGLE - SAME SCENE - POV CARLOS THROUGH CAMERA LENS
We watch these innocent children playing. If this was a gun
sight they'd be dead. CLICK!
NEW ANGLE
It is Carlos who has taken the picture. His smile at the
sight of the children is no longer a subtle one. There is
some secret enjoyment here.
It's then, that he notices the Two Arabs tailing him.
CLOSE ON - CARLOS
He frowns.
Now what happens can be interpreted in one of two ways. Carlos
takes a turn down an alleyway that has at first a shop or
two, and then is nothing but deserted and foreboding alley.
He is either trying to shake the two Arabs or he has just
entered every tourist's nightmare: a deserted alley in a
foreign country with two bad guys. He quickens his pace. The
Arabs do too. Carlos now knows they're after him and he takes
off running.
So do the two Arabs. Only now there are THREE MORE ARABS
coming after him.
MOVING
A tense, desperate CHASE in the Moslem Quarter's labyrinth
of twisted alleys and narrow streets. When his Arab pursuers
lose sight of him briefly, Carlos takes something out of his
pocket, some sort of ID and throws it in an alleyway.
Carlos races through the Suq, past a group of Arabs who begin
heeding the call to prayer. They roll out prayer mats and
begin acclaiming in Arabic that there is only one God and
Mohammed is his prophet. Carlos grabs one of the canvas
awnings that shade the alleyways and this cafe. He rips it
off, trying to make an obstacle course between him and his
pursuers. He overturns trays of olives, sacks of sunflower
seeds, anything he can get his hands on.
NEW ANGLE
Carlos runs headlong into a copper serving platter that is
hanging on display. He is disoriented, terrified, and then
seemingly from out of nowhere, he is tackled, grabbed by the
Arabs and dragged to a dark alley between two stores. Carlos
is overcome and brought down to the ground. One of the Arabs
evidently has a deep dislike for Carlos and though Carlos is
subdued, he kicks the shit out of him.
CUT TO BLACK:
Yoni and half a dozen plainclothed Shin Bet agents walk
through the alley looking around. Yoni is dressed like a
long-haired backpacking student; others dressed like Arabs,
others like tourists. As inconspicuously as possible, they
search alleys and trash cans like the homeless searching for
food.
SUPER: NORFOLK, VIRGINIA
Almost nothing is as cute as 3 foot 5 inch 6-year-olds
struggling to play the most elementary form of baseball, T-
ball.
ANGLE ON - 6 - YEAR-OLD JOEY RAMIREZ
He is the first baseman and he is intent upon the batter who
stands at the T.
ANGLE ON - THE PARENTS
cheering their kids on. Amongst them we recognize MAURA,
Annibal Ramirez's wife, who is cheering for her son's team.
She holds a ten month old baby as she cheers.
NEW ANGLE
on Annibal Ramirez, resplendent in his summer whites, his
face still showing the faintest remnants of bruises at the
hands of the Israelis. He holds his sea bag in his hand.
There is a waiting taxi behind him as he strides over towards
the baseball diamond.
ANGLE ON - JOEY
He sees his father just as the batter hits the ball.
JOEY
Poppi!
The pitcher scoops the grounder up and tosses it to Joey
whose eyes however have lit up at the sight of his sailor
father home from the sea so the ball hits him in the side of
the head and he goes down. Ramirez wants to rush out to his
son, but Joey straightens himself up quickly, not wanting to
be embarrassed by an over-protective parent.
ANGLE ON - MAURA AND RAMIREZ
Maura has followed her son's gaze at Ramirez and feels no
embarrassment whatsoever as she runs into his arms, still
holding her baby. She kisses him.
MAURA
I thought you weren't coming back
till tomorrow...
RAMIREZ
I wanted to be here for his game.
Look how beautiful she is!
He picks up the baby and kisses her.
RAMIREZ
Just like her mother.
MAURA
What happened to your eye?
RAMIREZ
Nothing. Just fell. It doesn't matter.
I'm home.
It's a stucco, single-level structure in a clean, middle
income neighborhood. Jack Shaw pulls up, crosses out of his
car and knocks on the door. The door opens revealing Ramirez
in a T-shirt and pair of sweats. Jack looks at his face, the
unmistakable face of Carlos.
RAMIREZ
Joey watch Yolanda... okay?
JACK
Jesus...
RAMIREZ
I beg your pardon?
JACK
Lieutenant Commander Ramirez my name
is Jack Shaw... I'm with the
government... I'd like to talk to
you about what happened in Israel.
CUT TO:
ANGLE - CLOSE ON
the barbeque's coals which burst into flame as fluid and
then match are applied. OVER this we hear
RAMIREZ
I want to sue them, okay? I want to
sue the guy who broke my ribs. I
want to sue their government and
their Mossad... and I want to sue
Golda Meir!
NEW ANGLE - ON JACK AND RAMIREZ
They stand at the barbeque as Joey plays shooting hoops.
Ramirez holds Yolanda. Ramirez and Jack speak quietly.
JACK
Mrs. Meir is dead, Lieutenant
Commander.
RAMIREZ
Then you might want to have them dig
her up because I intend to sue her.
Jack chuckles.
JACK
Commander Ramirez when I said I was
from the government, perhaps I should
have been more specific. I'm from
the CIA.
Jack reaches down, opens his briefcase and pulls out a large
photo album-like briefing book. He opens it up and hands it
to Ramirez. On the first page there is an 810 enlargement
of a photo of Carlos entering a building. It is grainy but
it certainly looks exactly like Ramirez.
JACK
Does the man in that picture look
familiar?
Ramirez looks at the picture with the same look on his face
that Jack had when he saw Ramirez for the first time.
YOLANDA
Poppi...
RAMIREZ
That's not me... I mean I know it
looks like me... but...
JACK
I know it's not you.
RAMIREZ
It's... this Carlos guy.
Just then, Joey yells from the tree he's in. Jack
automatically hides the picture as if the kid were from a
rival intelligence agency.
JOEY
Poppi, you don't need to watch the
fire, come climb with me.
RAMIREZ
Get out of that tree, Joey. Your
mother sees that and I'm dead.
Now when Jack speaks it is more guarded and in even quieter
tones.
JACK
This is the only recent shot we have
of him... telescopic lens from half
a mile away taken by the Israelis.
Can you blame 'em for what happened?
The only difference is the eyes.
Ramirez looks at the picture in shock at the resemblance.
RAMIREZ
Okay I get it now, you're here to
talk me out of my lawsuit. But see I
identified myself but they kept me
in that cell for two more days chained
to that wall after I told 'em who I
was so...
JACK
Lieutenant Commander, I am not here
about your lawsuit. Carlos is the
single most vicious terrorist in the
world. He's personally carried out
or masterminded the worst terrorist
attacks in modern history. Men, women,
children. Children like yours...
blown to bits or slaughtered in cold
blood. Annibal... why did you join
the Navy?
RAMIREZ
(as if by rote)
To serve my country.
JACK
To serve your country... to protect
her from her enemies. Well Carlos is
one of her enemies now. And he'll
probably become a bigger one...
terrorism... unfortunately is a growth
industry.
RAMIREZ
Why are you telling me all this?
JACK
Lieutenant Commander, the governments
of most countries in the free world
have been after Carlos for ten years
and we have nothing to show for it.
There is exactly one person in the
world who can help us get Carlos.
And that person is you.
RAMIREZ
What do you mean... to get him?
JACK
All I can tell you is it may take as
much as six months to a year of
preparation. It will involve a high
degree of risk. That much said, you
may never as much as lay eyes on him
yourself. But if we succeed Carlos
won't be a threat to anyone anymore.
Now I know you're going to need some
time to think about it so...
RAMIREZ
No I don't need any time. The answer's
no.
JACK
Annibal...
RAMIREZ
Lieutenant Commander... I am a Naval
Officer... that's what I was trained
for... that's what I'm good at...
See you came to the wrong address.
You want James Bond. He lives in
London and he's got an Aston Martin.
You can't miss him.
We HOLD on Ramirez's look and Jack's half-smile.
We open on a shot of the front door. The doorbell is rung
and the door opens after a beat, revealing Ramirez. We don't
yet see who is at the door.
RAMIREZ
Oh Jesus... what do you want?
NEW ANGLE
Revealing it is Jack who is at the door.
JACK
I want you to come with me.
RAMIREZ
Well then get set for disappointment.
JACK
Okay. Then you are ordered to come
with me.
RAMIREZ
You can't order me to do shit.
Just then the cellular phone which Jack holds rings. Jack
smiles and holds out the phone to Ramirez.
JACK
It's for you.
Ramirez takes the phone, totally faked out. He presses the
"send" button and gingerly says...
RAMIREZ
(into Cell phone)
Hello... who? Oh... yes sir... Yes
sir... Yes sir... Yes sir. I will...
yes sir.
We HOLD for a beat on Ramirez's look at Jack who stands there
unable to keep from smiling.
CUT TO:
A helicopter lands in its air ambulance spot outside the
Emergency Room entrance of Bethesda Naval Hospital. Out step
Ramirez and Jack. They cross over to the hospital entrance.
We SEE a sign on the wall identifying this as BETHESDA NAVAL
HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM ENTRANCE.
WE SUPER THE WORDS: "NOVEMBER, 1986"
Ramirez pulls up in a car with his wife and two children. He
is wearing his khaki uniform and carries a sea bag. He
embraces Maura.
RAMIREZ
You'll see... it'll go by fast.
MAURA
Not fast enough.
Ramirez bends down to hug Joey.
RAMIREZ
You take care of Mommy, okay?
JOEY
But why do you have to go?
RAMIREZ
Well they're finally giving me my
chance to go into subs... that's
what I've always wanted you know...
JOEY
New color subs...
RAMIREZ
Nuclear...
JOEY
Is there going to be a war, Poppi?
RAMIREZ
Not if I can help it.
JOEY
Then why do you need to go away?
RAMIREZ
Because sometimes countries need
soldiers and sailors to be on guard
so there won't be a war... So all
the little children like you and
baby Yolanda will be safe.
JOEY
Why can't somebody else's Daddy go
on the sub and you could stay here
and go to my games?
RAMIREZ
Because I'm the one they asked and
I'm the one who knows how to do the
job.
He kisses Joey, stands up and kisses Maura and the baby she
holds and walks past the guard gate, showing his ID as his
wife and children wave.
Montreal is an island in the middle of the St. Lawrence. It
is a city part way up a mountain, Mount Royale. We TRACK a
car as it drives up out of the city, up the mountain to of
all places, a cemetery which sits at the foot of a deserted
prison that looms above it. The cemetery like the prison is
deserted. There can be no more desolate place than a graveyard
full of long-dead prisoners whose prison has long since been
shut down.
WE SUPER THE FOLLOWING WORDS: TEMPORARY CIA SAFE HOUSE -
MONTREAL, CANADA
We SEE Jack's car with him and Ramirez in it driving into
the cemetery. As it does, it crosses in front of a video
camera inconspicuously placed in a tree.
CUT TO:
A camera mounted atop a light fixture pans with Jack's car
all the way up to the prison entrance. Signs on the prison
proclaim that it is closed and that trespassing is forbidden.
As Jack pulls up at the prison, a plainclothed operative
comes out and as Ramirez and Jack pull Ramirez's bag out of
the car, the operative slips into the driver's side and whisks
it away. The ground around the area is full of snow that has
not been plowed so the look of desertion is complete.
Amos, Jack and Ramirez walk amongst the tombstones. Jack and
Amos have warm coats. Ramirez does not. He shivers in the
cold, but tries not to show his discomfort.
AMOS
This is going to be unlike any
learning experience you've ever had
before. For one thing, we're going
to push to all your limits. Fatigue,
frustration and fear. We're going to
make you more terrified than you've
ever been in your life just to see
how you handle the fear. Any other
learning experience you get things
ninety- nine point nine nine nine
percent right you get an "A." Here
if you get things ninety-nine point
nine nine nine percent right... you
get...
Jack walks right up to Ramirez and mimes a gun with his thumb
and index finger and puts it right up to Ramirez's temple
and goes...
JACK
Dead! And I'll tell you the truth. I
honestly in my heart of hearts don't
care whether you live or die. Don't
take that personal. I don't care
whether I live or die. I do care
about getting Carlos. That's all I
care about.
RAMIREZ
But nothing personal, right?
AMOS
I'm not as cold-blooded as my American
friend... it would bother me very
much if you were dead... so we will
teach you to stay alive... but no
questions... just do. Otherwise...
He puts the imaginary gun to Ramirez's temple.
RAMIREZ
When do we start?
JACK
You already have. What were the names
on the last three tombstones you
passed on your right?
RAMIREZ
I... I don't know, I wasn't looking.
I wasn't paying attention.
JACK
That's what will get you killed.
Carlos is always looking... always
paying attention. Always.
AMOS
Because Carlos is the master of the
techniques of survival which we will
teach you and because he is an
efficient killer for whoever employs
him, then for him there are simply
no rules. Unlike you Miguel, you're
a rule follower, aren't you?
Ramirez says nothing.
AMOS
Carlos is the opposite of that and
that's what's so seductive, you know?
He can kill whomever he chooses...
ravish whoever he chooses... take
whatever he chooses. Do... whatever
he chooses. It is to be in many ways
a superman, not bound by the mores
or morals of humanity.
JACK
And if you learn what we can teach
you, you'll be one, too. If not,
you'll be dead.
It is a huge, empty room. Ramirez sits at the lone table as
Amos enters. Ramirez is eating a bowl of porridge. His breath
steams out in the cold. The room is freezing but instead of
a warm jacket, he wears light prison overalls.
AMOS
Good morning. How's the porridge,
you like it?
RAMIREZ
'Morning. It's not bad.
He finishes what's left in the bowl. Amos reaches over to a
side warming table. There is a huge pot of porridge there.
AMOS
Good... finish everything in the
pot.
RAMIREZ
There's got to be like... eight
helpings in there maybe...
AMOS
No questions... Just do.
From now on, unless otherwise indicated Ramirez is in the
too-tight shirt and tie and light jacket.
Jack is in the distance, observing.
As Jack and Ramirez walk toward the cemetery, we SEE Ramirez
who wears a lightweight white parka so that he shivers in
the cold in contrast to Jack's heavy winter gear. Ramirez
carries what appears to be a gun.
JACK
You need to not only remember the
names on every tombstone, but where
they are so when I call out a name,
you whirl and shoot.
They walk into a scene that is completely surreal. Standing
behind every tombstone is one of the crew of trainers.
Each man wears a white parka and white pants against the
freezing cold. In the center of their impromptu circle stands
Ramirez, also wearing white, but of much lighter material so
that he shivers in the cold. All of them including Ramirez
hold paint pellet guns. It is a cemetery full of living
targets which can shoot back. Jack stands outside the circle.
RAMIREZ
It's kind of cold. You think I might
be able to borrow a warmer jacket
from someone?
JACK
Brisson! We don't want you to be
comfortable. That's just what will
get you killed.
Ramirez hesitates a moment, trying to remember where the
tombstone with the name "Brisson" is. The trainer who stands
behind the "Brisson" tombstone has no such hesitation. He
fires at Ramirez and an ugly black splotch of paint explodes
on Ramirez's white suit. Ramirez shakes his head in
frustration.
JACK
DuPres! Paquet!
Ramirez whirls, misses one, is hit again with another black
splotch but hits the Paquet tombstone square in the chest
with a black splotch of his own.
Ramirez once again stands in the center in his lightweight
white parka surrounded by trainers in heavy white parkas.
Jack is nearby.
JACK
Here's the thing about Carlos. He
doesn't fit any mold. His father is
an extraordinarily wealthy playboy
who's a Marxist at the same time...
DuFraisne!
Ramirez whirls and misses and is hit by the trainer. Jack
shakes his head and continues.
JACK
The guy's such a fanatic he names
his three sons after Lenin. And I
don't mean John. The same thing is
true for Carlos. He's a guerilla
fighter who loves champagne and
caviar... LaPierre!
Ramirez whirls and hits the trainer in his shoulder at the
same time that he himself is hit. Jack's look betrays no
emotion.
JACK
He doesn't want to be Che Guevara,
he wants to be the James Bond of the
People's Liberation Front. It's not
so much radical chic as an excuse
for sadism. Paquet!
As he says this last, Ramirez whirls and shoots another
trainer, dead in the chest. Ramirez smiles. He is beginning
to enjoy playing terrorist.
We are speeding down the road in a suped-up open Jeep POV
Ramirez, who is driving. Suddenly, we SEE Jack and Amos up
ahead. Amos pulls a lever and a barrier snaps up at chest
level across the road. We jam on the brakes and
CUT TO:
Ramirez and Jack walk together on the belvedere which is an
observation area with a railing around it, overlooking the
abandoned prison. In between the belvedere and the prison is
a field which is almost completely barren except for one
tree. It sits down below.
In the distance, we SEE a snow mobile approach with its lights
on. Just then, Jack takes a pocket sized remote transmitter
and slips it into the front pocket of Ramirez's jacket,
turning it on as he does.
RAMIREZ
What's that?
JACK
It's a transmitter.
RAMIREZ
For what?
JACK
Target practice. You're the target.
Jack quickly moves away from Ramirez. As Ramirez moves, he
notices that the snow mobile changes direction as well, and
continues to home in on him. And then there is a second snow
mobile. And then a third, all of them coming straight for
him. He starts to run. The snow mobiles turn and continue
bearing down on him, driving him closer toward the railing.
We SEE the snow mobiles are controlled by radio antennas,
evidently homing in on his transmitter.
Jack, who has moved quite a ways off, pulls out a Beretta
and sets it on the rail. We SEE on the snow mobiles, a lit-
up remote device.
JACK
If you shoot out the receivers,
they'll stop. There are ten rounds
in this clip. The first two are live,
the next three dummy, then three
live, two dummy.
Ramirez stands like a deer in the headlights for an instant
and then goes running for the gun. He cannot make it to the
gun before the first snow mobile barrels down upon him. He
is right against the rail now and goes diving into the snow.
The snow mobile goes directly over him and crashes through
the rail, falling down to the field below. Ramirez is up and
running, grabs the gun, fires two rounds and misses, then
hits three dummy rounds which click away as the second snow
mobile draws closer. Then he fires and hits a headlight,
then fires and misses, then fires and hits the remote device.
That snow mobile stops in its tracks. The third now barrels
down on Ramirez. He clicks off two dummy rounds and just
before the snow mobile hits him, a shot rings out. The
receiver shatters and we SEE Jack standing with the smoking
gun with which he has just saved Ramirez's life.
JACK
Three times dead.
We have four quick cuts. Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam! In each one,
Ramirez who stands in the center of the trainers, whirls
like a ballet dancer and beats each trainer to the punch,
hitting dead center on each one with his paint pellet gun.
From the side, Amos and Jack nod to each other approvingly.
A triumphant Ramirez walks with Amos and Jack.
JACK
The plan is to get the KGB to
eliminate Carlos for us. Carlos knows
every link between the KGB and every
terrorist organization in the world.
He's not only the smoking gun, he
knows every contact there ever was.
We make the KGB think that Carlos is
ready to turn... ready to go over to
the CIA, and they'll take him out.
RAMIREZ
Why would they think Carlos would go
over to the CIA?
AMOS
Money... fifty million... not for
the forces of world revolution this
time, but for him, in his pocket
with a new identity and CIA
protection. They'll believe it... if
we lay it out right... they'll believe
it.
RAMIREZ
When do we move?
AMOS
Not so fast. You're far from ready.
I would think another three months
of training and then...
RAMIREZ
Bullshit! I'm ready now. Give me any
test you want. Christ, I already
passed your tests... what more do
you want?
The sun is just setting. There is the silhouette of the prison
in the snow. A kind of dark serenity permeates the scene.
Ramirez races down the road in the Jeep. The road twists and
turns as a light snow begins to fall.
WE SUPER THE FOLLOWING: ISRAEL - APRIL, 1987
We have an aerial shot over a date plantation which sits
incongruously in the middle of the desert beside the Dead
Sea, as we MOVE TO REVEAL a car driving along this barren
road. The CAMERA pivots around the car as we See the landscape
scroll behind it; the tortured rock formations, the mountains
reflected in the water, a desert-scape that looks like
something out of Dante, as Peugeot cuts its way along the
road.
At first we should not realize we are near a building of any
kind. We open on a WIDE ANGLE on the Dead Sea from a stunning
POV. CRANE DOWN to reveal the silhouette of Ramirez smoking
a cigarette. We now SEE that his nose is exactly that of
Carlos. He has just a bit of dark circles left under his
eyes, just enough to make him seem moody. He tosses the
cigarette and turns to enter a room. Now we see that this is
a deserted barracks pock-marked with artillery shells and
machine gun bullet holes from past wars.
Ramirez turns to enter the barracks with a wide-angle of the
landscape overlooking the Dead Sea. He now wears a black T-
shirt and black jeans. The Peugeot is parked near the barracks
that sits on the edge of the cliff in b.g.
A beautiful young woman whom we will come to know as AGNIESKA
enters her apartment building.
Ramirez stands looking out to the horizon, smoking a cigarette
when Jack comes up behind him.
JACK
Well... not the most painful way to
burn your bridges behind you, huh
Miguel?
RAMIREZ
What do you mean?
JACK
Saint Miguel the faithful husband is
dead. Long live Carlos. You've cheated
on your wife... now you can do
anything.
RAMIREZ
What I did in there I didn't do to
cheat on my wife and you know it.
JACK
Hey, pussy's pussy.
Ramirez turns to look at him as if a light bulb has just
gone on.
RAMIREZ
I just got it about you, Jack. You
can't get it up, can you?
The look on Jack's face for once, having been caught
completely off guard, betrays the fact that Ramirez is dead-
on. Just then, we HEAR:
AMOS (O.S.)
We've got it. Just confirmed.
JACK
Got what confirmed?
ANGLE ON - AMOS
He crosses towards them, holding a decoded message.
AMOS
The KGB has set up a surveillance on
Agnieska. And Agnieska has received
her summons from her long-lost love...
Carlos, telling her to come and meet
you. At the meeting you convince her
you're Carlos. You ask her to handle
some bank transactions. She will.
Then the KGB knows Carlos and Ortega
are the same man. Then later they'll
see you meet with a CIA agent. They'll
have all the pieces. They'll know
Carlos has turned.
RAMIREZ
Where do I meet with this Agnieska?
AMOS
Libya. That's where Carlos is.
RAMIREZ
Couldn't we wait till he takes a
trip? I mean Libya... shit.
AMOS
The waiting is more dangerous to you
than going to Libya. We've laid out
a trap. Now we have to be careful
not to get caught in it ourselves.
Ramirez and Amos walk along the road which runs straight
along the Dead Sea. Here and there are strands of barbed
wire and the barracks in the b.g. As they walk, they pass a
sign which says: THE DEAD SEA - YOU ARE NOW STANDING AT THE
LOWEST SPOT ON EARTH... ELEVATION: 393 METERS BELOW SEA LEVEL.
AMOS
Jack doesn't know that we're having
this talk and I don't want him to
know... understand?
RAMIREZ
Okay...
AMOS
Nothing can make you ready for combat
but combat. Jack would be against me
telling you this... He would say you
shouldn't have a thought in your
head that we haven't put there but
you're not just a box that we're
going to fill up with our own ideas.
You have a right to know certain
things.
RAMIREZ
I appreciate that Amos... a lot.
It's funny, I started out hating
you... I mean I'm still gonna sue
you, don't think you're off the hook
for my broken ribs, but...
AMOS
But now you love me and we're going
to run away to San Francisco and
find a reformed rabbi to perform a
mixed gay marriage. Listen to me...
You're going to feel more alone than
you've ever felt in your life. It
will hit you all of a sudden and
you'll think your heart's going to
jump out of your chest, you'll think
everyone around you can hear your
heart beating, and that everyone
around you is an enemy agent. I want
you to be prepared for that. So you
can deal with it. Understand?
In the far distance, we are vaguely aware of a huge truck
barreling along, coming straight down the highway towards
them.
RAMIREZ
Yes.
AMOS
We had an agent... the best we ever
had in training. We were going to
infiltrate him into Beirut and then
use him to penetrate the PFLP. No
student ever scored higher than this
man... We set up his cover for six
months in Argentina. He was perfect.
And then we sent him to Beirut. He
got off the plane, went to his hotel,
went up to his room and had a nervous
breakdown.
Suddenly it seems, the truck is right on top of them, heading
straight for them, like monster in a child's nightmare. It
passes within inches and Ramirez has to fight to keep from
jumping as the truck roars past them. It is not a monster,
just a truck. Then again, it could have killed them just the
same.
AMOS
We had to mount an operation to send
in a man posing as a doctor so we
could drug him and get him out on a
plane. Okay? Now you understand?
Nothing prepares you. I want you to
know that so when it hits you, you
don't panic, you feel the fear and
then get rid of it.
RAMIREZ
Jesus...
AMOS
You splash some water on your face.
You take some deep breaths. You look
in the mirror and when you look in
that mirror, I don't want you to
find Annibal Ramirez. You find Carlos.
If you find Carlos, that's what
everyone else will find too. And if
you find Carlos and anything goes
wrong, he's the one who can get you
out of it. Because he's the best.
RAMIREZ
(after a beat)
I got a wife I got to go back to
when this is over. I got kids I got
to go back to when this is over. I
want to go back as Annibal Ramirez...
not Carlos.
AMOS
You will... you'll need a time of
decompression and it will be hard at
first, but you will. Because inside
you aren't Carlos... you aren't a
terrorist. But right now, in order
to save your life, you've got to be.
You've got to look in the mirror and
find Carlos. Do you understand?
It is almost said like the offering of a vow.
RAMIREZ
I do.
AMOS
You won't be able to go in with a
gun... too risky... so we're going
to have to get one to you once you're
in place. How I don't know yet...
But we'll get one to you. You'll
make your way out by boat. We'll be
on it. But we won't be able to help
if anything goes wrong. We'll make
our way down the coast to a friendly
state and then fly back to London,
and from there back to the U.S.
As passengers come out of the plane we recognize Ramirez
amongst them.
SUPER: TRIPOLI, LIBYA - MAY 1987
We have a shot of the cab, an old Mercedes coming towards
us, and then under the arch leading to the entrance of the
hotel. Ramirez steps out and he's assailed by a bunch of
kids begging and trying to grab his baggage. He looks around.
ANGLE - POV RAMIREZ
Across the street at a cafe soldiers with guns laugh. From a
shop window, the silhouette of a man seems to look right at
us. Across the street, kids on a balcony throw a water balloon
at a horse pulling a cart and the horse bolts right in front
of Ramirez.
BACK TO SCENE
As the street urchins continue to beg and grab at his luggage,
and the taxi driver demands impatiently to be paid, suddenly
out of nowhere, a bellboy appears and smacks one of the kids
who falls to the ground. They all disperse as the bellboy
takes the luggage and leads Ramirez who pays the cab driver
and then crosses to the hotel.
We SEE a beautiful dark haired woman of about thirty coming
down the street. There are several other pedestrians as well.
The woman is Agnieska. She carries a large bag of groceries.
A van is parked on the street. Agnieska walks along. The van
starts. A man whom we will come to know as VLADIMIR adjusts
the mirror. His partner NIKOLAI readjusts it and in it we
SEE Agnieska, walking. The two KGB operatives, now both see
Agnieska.
VLADIMIR
[There she comes...]
NIKOLAI
[Do you see Misha?]
VLADIMIR
[Not yet.]
Behind Agnieska about fifty feet behind her we SEE several
pedestrians, one is an Arab and another a European. Agnieska
goes up into an apartment building.
VLADIMIR
[There he is.]
Around the corner comes another Arab businessman type. The
first Arab stops in front of the apartment house and bends
down to tie his shoe. The second Arab comes up alongside of
him and the first Arab gives an almost imperceptible nod.
The second Arab goes into the apartment house.
VLADIMIR
[He's passing her to Leonid. For
Russians, they make good Arabs.]
The van makes a U-turn and pulls around the corner to give
them another vantage point of Agnieska's apartment.
The silhouette of a fishing boat drifts along the coastline.
Ramirez comes out of the apartment onto the fire escape.
Bullets hit the wall next to him and below we SEE several
DST agents shooting up at him. A DST agent appears inside
the apartment and shoots at Ramirez. Ramirez moves out of
the way of the shattered window.
ANGLE - POV RAMIREZ
looking down and across the alley.
DST agents from below are shooting up at Ramirez. Their
gunfire destroys everything in sight. Ramirez leaps over the
railing and flies across the street, landing on a terrace.
His momentum is so strong that he is propelled through the
glass doors of the terrace.
Ramirez goes through the window of the apartment as bullets
continue to fly. He cuts his feet on the broken glass.
Ramirez quickly goes through the apartment, falling into the
room, landing hard where a family is eating and watching TV.
We see now that Ramirez is wounded.
Ramirez arrives at the top of the stairs. Reaching the edge
of the roof, Ramirez looks across to the other side. The DST
agents arrive at the top and see Ramirez. Ramirez takes a
deep breath and jumps, barely making it, clinging onto a
pipe on the side of the building. Once again, we Intercut
the quick flashback of the DST man being shot. Then, as shots
ring out around him, Ramirez pulls himself up and gets away.
Ramirez checks over the side of the building to see a DST
car following. One agent steps out and starts to shoot at
him. Ramirez fires back and shatters the windshield and then
jumps to the next rooftop.
Ramirez's silhouette runs from roof to roof.
Ramirez trips over a piece of metal and crashes through the
metal roof of a shed, and then, landing, he takes off running
through the narrow alley below.
Ramirez runs down the dark and narrow alley.
Outside a Turkish cafe, a DST agent shoots at Ramirez. All
the diners duck for cover. Ramirez shoots out the lights,
the fixture sparks and flies off its hook, sending a string
of lights crashing down toward the DST agent, the bulbs
exploding around his head.
Ramirez arrives at a small street. In the distance we SEE
the lights of a bright and busy street. Suddenly, headlights
hit his face, gunfire rings out and Ramirez takes off followed
by the oncoming car.
Ramirez comes out of the doorway and waves down a taxi.
Ramirez jumps into the driver's seat, pushing the driver
aside. When the driver resists, Ramirez throws him out into
the street.
A passing truck nearly hits the driver. Other Arabs start
approaching Ramirez but back off immediately once he raises
his gun. The taxi makes a U-turn and leaves, racing through
traffic. Ramirez checks his mirror and sees that he is picked
up by a DST car. They begin to shoot at Ramirez and his back
window shatters.
Ramirez is driving full speed. The car jumps as it hits the
junction of the street. Ramirez continues to be followed by
the car of DST agents. Ramirez turns into a small alley.
Ramirez drives down the narrow street. The sides of the car
barely fit through. Sparks fly from the metal scratching
against the walls. The taxi's mirror pops off as the chase
continues.
The cars continue to race through the streets. Ramirez
suddenly sees two kids coming out of a garage. Ramirez veers
out of the way and misses the kids. The car goes crashing
into scaffolding and paint drops down onto the windshield.
Once again, we Intercut the flashback of Ramirez killing the
first DST agent, being splattered with his blood. Ramirez
continues to drive away, wiping away the paint on the
windshield.
Ramirez tries to wipe away the paint. The cars continue to
race through the streets.
The two cars disappear down a hill. Ramirez's vision is
blurred by the paint on the windshield. A car suddenly appears
that forces him to veer left into a stairwell. The taxi
descends the stairway. Ramirez suddenly pulls the parking
brake and the other car hits Ramirez's car and flips over it
and explodes. Ramirez, watching the explosion, takes off the
other way.
On the harbor, a police car is seen next to Ramirez's taxi.
The sergeant reveals some blood inside the taxi but Ramirez
is nowhere to be found. We SEE the KGB on the scene.
The fishing boat enters the harbor. Jack stands on the deck
as the boat passes under a bridge. Out of nowhere a man jumps
onto Jack and shoves him to the ground. Holding him by the
neck, Amos appears and is about to hit Ramirez but Ramirez
grabs Amos' arm and stares at him.
We SEE Carlos' villa through the barbed wire. The silhouette
of a guard is on top of the building.
The Head KGB Officer is there with his aide. Both look as if
they've been up all night.
KGB AIDE
[Whether Carlos was actually in there
with her or not we don't know... All
we know is there was a gun battle...
DST agents from what we've been able
to find out. But whether or not it
was Carlos...]
HEAD KGB OFFICER
[If it was Carlos and he sent for
the girl... and she betrayed him...
Well... we should keep watch on the
girl. What he does about her will
tell us more than anything else.]
A French DST security man comes out of the apartment building
first. He looks around the street and then nods. A second
DST man comes out of the building and gets in a black Renault
after first checking underneath it to make sure there is no
bomb and then popping the hood and examining the engine and
then examining the ignition wires. Satisfied, he takes a
deep breath and starts the motor and then the first DST man
nods inside the apartment building and another DST man comes
out with Agnieska next to him. He opens the door for her
when two shots ring out, both of them hitting her in the
forehead. The DST agents scatter for cover when suddenly the
car parked in front of the Renault explodes with tremendous
force and the DST agents are all hit.
SUPER: LONDON - HEATHROW AIRPORT
A taxi pulls up in front of Ramirez's house. Ramirez steps
out of the taxi dressed in his Navy uniform and carrying his
sea bag. He does not have a hat on and we SEE his head while
not bald, is now in the shortest of buzz cuts, certainly
much shorter than the way his wife last saw him. He stands
outside the house looking at it like an adult who has come
back to his boyhood home and finds it suddenly so small.
Just then the door opens. There is Maura holding the baby
and next to her, Joey. Ramirez runs toward them and they to
him and we SEE them in tableaux, embracing. An idyllic family
reunited.
CUT TO:
SUPER: JULY, 1987
It is Little League Day. Adorable kids are dressed up in
their uniforms ready to play the next level of baseball.
They have graduated from T-ball to coach-pitch, in which the
coach pitches the ball for the kids. There are hot dogs and
lounge chairs, family dogs and... fathers. The mothers are
there as well, as are brothers and sisters, but primarily it
is the fathers trying to fulfill their own dreams of sports
glory through their kids.
ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ AND JOEY
Ramirez has his arm around Joey, giving him his last bit of
fatherly advice.
RAMIREZ
Okay... remember, what do we do?
JOEY
Keep my eye on the ball.
RAMIREZ
And who's the guy who wins?
JOEY
Whoever has fun, wins.
RAMIREZ
Right! So you go out there and have
fun.
He gives Joey "five" and Joey runs out to join his team at
their dugout. Ramirez starts walking about toward Maura and
the baby. As he does, he crosses next to another father,
FRANK, who is with his son TYLER. Frank is about six foot
four and to say that he is competitive would be the
understatement of the year. He is haranguing his kid as if
this were the deciding game of the World Series. He is on
one knee so we don't see just how big he is.
FRANK
I don't want so see you out there
dickin' around today, you understand?
Tyler looks at his shoes. He is cowed and embarrassed.
TYLER
Yes sir.
FRANK
You're gonna be focused and aggressive
and you're gonna play to win. Got
it?
Tyler is still staring at his toes.
FRANK
Hey, you think I'm talking just to
hear myself talk? Look at me when
I'm talking to you!
Frank suddenly smacks him in the face. Annibal stops in front
of the two of them.
RAMIREZ
Hey pal, lighten up, what do you
say? It's just a game?
Frank looks at Ramirez and stands to his full six foot four.
FRANK
What did you say?
RAMIREZ
I said lighten up. It's just a game
and he's just a kid.
FRANK
He's my kid.
RAMIREZ
Great. So why don't we let our kids
have a good time. Come on, I'll buy
you a beer.
FRANK
I don't need you to buy me a fuckin'
beer, you piece of shit. And you
stick your face in my business again
and I'll beat the living fuck out of
you. What do you say to that?
ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ
There isn't a trace of Ramirez here at all. It is pure Carlos.
FRANK
What are you smilin' at, asshole?
RAMIREZ
(very quiet)
A dead man...
But before Ramirez can move, we HEAR:
MAURA (O.S.)
Annibal... please!
Ramirez turns. Maura is there beside him.
MAURA
Annibal please. Let's go sit down.
FRANK
Good idea, Annabelle. Your ol' lady
just saved your ass.
MAURA
Annibal... please... Please...
Maura tugs at Ramirez's arm and Frank smirks. Ramirez cages
the monster inside and turns with Maura. As he turns, Frank
turns to Tyler as if he cannot believe the boy is still there.
FRANK
What are you doin' standing here?!
You're supposed to be over there
with your team! Now move!
The boy hesitates. Frank rears back his arm to hit him.
FRANK
I said...
But before Frank can complete the sentence and strike his
child, Ramirez comes flying through the air with a kick
planted straight to Frank's head. It is sudden and violent
and brutal. He comes down and with one side-kick, "knee-caps"
Frank, which is to say he hits the top of Frank's kneecap
and breaks it so that it is down around his shin. Frank starts
to drop but before he can, Ramirez grabs his ears and brings
his head down into his own swiftly rising knee. The result
is devastating and Frank's nose is now all across his face.
Blood is everywhere and Ramirez does it again. Now the object
is Frank's teeth, so that when his head comes off of Ramirez's
knee, his mouth is a mass of blood as well.
In slow motion, Ramirez turns and sees his son who stares in
horror at what his father has just done. At the same time,
maura is up and grabbing onto Ramirez. Ramirez however is
not done. Frank is completely defenseless now and Ramirez
leans him back across his knee, pulls him by the hair exposing
his throat like that of a sacrificial lamb about to be
slaughtered. This time instead of a knife, it will be a karate
chop from Ramirez which will crush Frank's windpipe and kill
him. But before he can deliver the blow, Maura grabs his
arm. He turns to her, almost about to hit her or throw her
off and the two of them are face to face as Ramirez looks
from her to his son and realizes how deep into the abyss he
has plunged.
An ambulance is receiving what is left of Frank on a gurney
as Ramirez is led away in handcuffs to a squad car.
CUT TO:
Ramirez exits with Jack and starts across the street in the
rain.
RAMIREZ
I got to have time to think it over.
JACK
There isn't any time. He's on his
way to East Berlin. We have word
he's planning another attack in
Europe. He'll be there maybe four
days at the most.
Ramirez stops dead right in the middle of the street. The
traffic swirls around them.
RAMIREZ
Hey, I don't know what to do anymore,
okay? I almost killed some little
kid's father today. I don't know
about anything anymore.
JACK
Hey, he was a baseball dad. He
deserved it. Besides, from what I
heard his kid was out, so what's the
beef?
RAMIREZ
I don't know if I could come back
from it again.
JACK
What happened to I want the son of a
bitch dead? You think Carlos has had
a change of heart and turned nice
all of a sudden?
RAMIREZ
Don't tell me about Carlos, Jack. I
know exactly who Carlos is. I know a
hell of a lot better than you do.
But, maybe there's more important
things to me, like keepin' from goin'
crazy... like gettin' back to bein'
me instead of me bein' some kind of
fuckin' maniac.
JACK
You want to get back to bein' you?
Then finish it. Kill him. Kill him
and he's dead and it's over with.
You walk away from it now and what
do you think you're gonna be like
the next time you read that that son
of a bitch blew up some airplane
full of women and kids.
RAMIREZ
Hey, the guy deserves to be dead. I
know that.
JACK
This isn't abstract, Annibal. You're
walkin' around with his face. Sooner
or later one of the bad guys is gonna
see it like Koj did, and next time
Amos won't be there to take the bullet
for you. Carlos doesn't forget. You
help me get him or you're never gonna
know when he's comin' after you...
Listen to me kid. I don't have any
friends, no family, no nothin'. The
only relationships I ever had that
mattered to me were with the people
I killed. But I... I fucking created
you! You can't just walk away now.
RAMIREZ
You did create me, didn't you...
From the beginning... that kid in
the hospital in Bethesda... when I
was supposed to be the doctor... It
was all bullshit, wasn't it? All an
act...
There is a long pause. Jack turns cold as ice.
JACK
This doesn't have anything to do
with you and me. It's you and Carlos.
You help me kill him... or I swear
to you... I'll make sure he knows
about you... I'll use you for bait.
You and your whole fuckin' family
too.
Ramirez grabs him and throws him against a parked car. He
begins choking Jack. He may well kill him. Though Ramirez
doesn't see it at first, Jack's gun is already out. Jack
nudges Ramirez in the stomach with it. Jack is choking, unable
to speak, but the gun is speaking for him.
JACK
Huh? Huh?
Ramirez looks down and see the gun and loosens his grip.
JACK
You want to try and kill me, that
doesn't solve your problem, pally.
You've got a Carlos problem. That's
the guy you've got to kill. That's
what it's all about now... you...
and your family... or him.
SUPER: WEST BERLIN - JULY, 1987
We are ON the ramparts on the top of the Berlin Wall. These
are platforms from which people can stand and look into East
Berlin, they're covered with graffiti to the East Germans,
LET MY PEOPLE GO, that sort of thing. They look down over
they dingy wall that divides the city marked with machine
gun nests and observation posts. Jack stands there with
Ramirez.
JACK
We used a double agent to get word
to the Russians that Carlos is really
here to close his deal with us and
not to plan a new attack in Europe.
He has a new girlfriend... He's been
fucking her brains out since he got
here. He has her brought over every
night in a limo. You'll be dropped
near the mansion... as soon as she
goes in, you make as if you're
sneaking out... the Russians will be
watching. You'll go to the meet.
It's at that beer hall, there...
see? You see it?
Ramirez locates the beer hall through his binoculars.
RAMIREZ
Got it.
JACK
You go to the meet at the beer hall.
Play it out... let 'em take your
picture... then you've got to get
back. They're going to have to analyze
the pictures and see through your
disguise before they can authorize a
hit. They won't be able to do that
before you're able to get back to
the mansion. At twenty-one fifteen a
Volga with diplomatic plates, DC-
four-five-nine-two will come by the
northeast corner of the compound. It
will slow down... you jump in. If
you can't make it for any reason,
there will be another run at exactly
twenty-one forty-five. It's your
only ticket out so don't be late.
RAMIREZ
Who do I meet? Who's my contact?
JACK
Me... My ass is on the line too.
RAMIREZ
Who cares? This isn't you and me.
It's me and him. If the Russians
don't go for the bait for any
reason...
JACK
If the Russians don't go for the
bait for any reason you will have
gotten out of there at twenty-one
fifteen per orders.
RAMIREZ
If the Russians don't go for the
bait for any reason, I'll go in there
and kill him myself. And if I'm still
alive I might just come looking for
you.
SUPER: WEISSEN, EAST BERLIN
THROUGH BINOCULARS
Across a street with a tree-lined divider, a large mansion
surrounded by a ten-foot high brick wall. The mansion's front
windows are heavily shuttered, with little light filtering
through. Nearby is a small lake.
The KGB car falls in behind another car separating it from
the motorbike and follows Ramirez into town. He passes by
giant steam pipes in the foreground as the KGB car follows.
A tram wipes the screen to reveal Ramirez, on his motorbike,
followed by the KGB car. The landscape is desolate, with
drab row-houses. Ramirez gets to a red light. As it turns
green he sees the KGB car in his mirror. He jams across the
street, just barely fitting in between two criss-crossing
streetcars. Ivan and Andre lose sight of Ramirez.
Ivan and Andre shoot forward and then slow, as they spot
Ramirez buying a newspaper at a newstand.
ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ
He holds his motorcycle helmet in his hand, and using it as
a mirror, he sees the KGB car in its reflection. Satisfied
that they have caught up with him again, he walks across the
street to the beer hall.
Ramirez emerges from the beer hall. He heads back to his
motorbike.
ANGLE
Seconds later, the two KGB come out. This time, only Andrei
takes after Ramirez. Ivan gets into a taxi which heads in an
opposite direction.
CUT TO:
Reaching the mansion, Ramirez discreetly steals his way toward
its back wall. Then, just as slyly as he earlier had
materialized, he disappears.
ON VLADIMIR AT HIS POST
Watching Ramirez vanish into the mansion wall.
He lies in the thick bushes, completely obscured from anyone's
view and now he removes the blond wig and the rest of his
disguise. Underneath his "disguise" clothes, he is wearing a
pair of black jeans and black T-shirt. He looks exactly like
Carlos now.
PRODUCTION NOTE: IT IS IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IS GOING
ON HERE. THE REAL CARLOS HAS NOT DYED HIS HAIR BLOND. THIS
WAS NOT THE REASON FOR RAMIREZ PUTTING ON A BLOND WIG. THE
LOGIC HERE IS THAT IF THE "REAL CARLOS" WERE IN FACT GOING
TO A MEET WITH A CIA AGENT, HE WOULD HAVE PUT ON SUCH A
DISGUISE TO MAKE SURE HE WAS NOT SPOTTED BY THE RUSSIANS.
Ramirez watches as Jack cruises by.
RAMIREZ
Not till he's dead, Jack. Not till
he's dead.
It opens slowly. One by one, a half dozen MFS -- including
the two we've seen earlier -- sneak out. Just as furtively,
armed KGB -- led by the Head KGB Officer and his Aide move
in through the still-open door.
He watches the KGB men enter the compound.
RAMIREZ
(sotto voce)
Don't blow it Comrades... kill him.
Ramirez lies in some bushes about fifty yards from the house,
dressed in the black jeans and T-shirt. He hears the gunfire
from the mansion.
RAMIREZ
What the fuck?
It's a dark night, and only a few dim lights illuminate the
rather large back yard.
ON CARLOS
Landing in a bed of flowers, he rolls, and is quickly on his
feet with the machine-pistol in hand.
ON TWO ARMED KGB
Securing the courtyard, they rush to the spot where,
apparently, they'd seen him land. Carlos, however, is no
longer there.
ANGLE
Glued to the back of a tree, the Jackal cuts them down with
one short burst and goes for the KGBs who appear at the broken
window. As they take cover, he quickly confiscates a
Kalashnikov from the dead KGB closest to him and makes it to
the high wall which encircles the place.
Carlos climbs over the wall with the Kalashnikov and drops
outside the compound to the grass below.
ANGLE ON RAMIREZ IN THE GRASS
He sees to his horror that Carlos is getting away. He is
ready to scream, going crazy. He has no gun, he wouldn't
stand a chance against Carlos, but there is no way he is
going to let him get away, no way. He looks around for a
rock... anything.
There is nothing. Carlos turns his back. Ramirez sees his
chance, he gets up on one knee ready to make his move when
suddenly he sees two more KGB guys come running around the
wall of the compound.
ANGLE ON RAMIREZ
He mouths the words:
RAMIREZ
Kill him... Kill him...
ANGLE ON CARLOS
He whirls and fires at the two KGBs who fall.
ANGLE ON RAMIREZ
He can't believe it. Carlos is getting away?
ANGLE ON CARLOS
He suddenly gets a look as if he feels someone's presence.
His eyes open wide and he starts to turn when Ramirez comes
flying out of the darkness and leaps on Carlos. The two are
dressed exactly alike. Carlos is hit from behind and is
stunned and drops the assault rifle.
Ramirez has Carlos down and is choking him. Carlos looks up
at him more shocked than anything else. Finally Carlos manages
to break the grasp and kicks Ramirez off. Now it is a dazzling
display of martial arts. Then Ramirez charges Carlos and
tackles him and the two go rolling off into the bushes and
darkness. When they roll out of the bushes we have no idea
which one is which or who we should be rooting for. Just
then Jack's Volga drives up at the side.
ANGLE ON THE TWO CARLOSES
They roll over onto the bodies of two dead KGB. There is a
Kalashnikov on the ground pointed into the Carlos on the
bottom's side. The Carlos who is on top manages to get his
finger over to the trigger and pulls it sending a burst into
the Carlos on the bottom's body. Just then the Carlos on top
looks up and sees Jack standing over him with a gun pointed
at him ready to shoot. In b.g. we HEAR cars with sirens
approaching. The Carlos on top looks over to Jack who is
ready to shoot him.
CARLOS ON TOP
Don't shoot. It's me you asshole!
Jack just stares at him and then lowers his gun.
JACK
Let's get the fuck out of here.
He turns around and starts to get into the Volga. The Carlos
on top, whom we just thought was Ramirez bends down and
reaches for the dead KGB's pistol.
ANGLE ON JACK
He gets that sixth sense feeling and turns around, his gun
raised and pointed at the man whose hand is now on the pistol.
Is it Carlos or Ramirez, who is standing there with pistol
in hand almost turned to Jack but still at a disadvantage in
this Mexican stand off.
JACK
Have you come looking for me now,
Annibal?
THE MAN WITH THE PISTOL
What the fuck are you talking about...
JACK
Awfully warm for this time of year
isn't it?
The man with the pistol knows this is a password of some
kind and the look on his face betrays the fact that he doesn't
have an answer. Jack is just about to shoot him when a burst
of machine gun fire is heard from the approaching cars and
it rips into the tree next to Jack who dives for cover.
That act of self-preservation gives the man we now realize
is the real Carlos the chance he needs. With catlike grace
he dives, rolls and vanishes into the shadows. He has gotten
away and Jack has to decide whether to go after his quarry
or rescue his friend. He opts for the latter, scoops up
Annibal and throws him into the Volga and speeds off as cars
approach from the other side.
A car pulls up at the hospital and Maura gets out and enters
the hospital.
DISSOLVE TO:
We hear a phone ring and it is picked up.
MAURA (O.S.; THRU PHONE)
Hello...
We hear the voice of a friend of hers named GRACE.
GRACE (O.S.; THRU PHONE)
Hi... listen, do you and Annibal
want to come over with the kids for
a barbeque this afternoon?
MAURA (O.S.; THRU PHONE)
Uh sure, I think... but could I call
you back later? We're just about to
go to church. Annibal and the kids
are already in the car.
GRACE (O.S.; THRU PHONE)
Okay, call me when you get back.
MAURA (O.S.; THRU PHONE)
Great. Talk to you later. Bye bye.
We hear the phone hang up. We hear the sound of a door opening
and closing that leads into the garage from the house. We
hear the sound of a car door opening. And then the key turning
in an ignition. And then the door is blown off the garage as
we see the Ramirez family car burst into an inferno and blaze
away inside the garage in a fiery blast which would kill one
and all instantly.
DISSOLVE TO:
The cemetery is set up for a funeral. There are various Navy
officers and their families in the chairs. At the back of it
all stands Jack wearing sunglasses, his face a mask into
which it is impossible to read any emotion of any kind. There
are four graves and four coffins, two adult-sized and two
small ones. Admiral Crawford addresses the mourners.
CRAWFORD
How does one even begin to comprehend
a tragedy like this. A highly
respected Naval officer returns from
six months of hazardous duty. He has
escaped the danger we all come to
know in the service of our country.
He is about to go to church with his
beloved family and in an instant...
they are no more. They are with God.
Our minds cannot comprehend such
tragedy... only an undying faith in
the Almighty a faith that says even
though we cannot see it, there is a
plan. That and the knowledge that as
in life, so for eternity are they
together...
ANGLE ON JACK
He whispers to himself as he takes off his sunglasses.
JACK
Now you're free.
DISSOLVE TO:
It is a beautiful island community with clusters of villas
overlooking a magnificent coastline. A postal truck winds
its way towards one of the houses.
The POSTMAN gets out of his truck and crosses to the door of
the house. He knocks on the door. The door opens... it is
Ramirez... or Carlos... we don't know which. He wears shorts
and a shirt.
POSTMAN
Mister Mendoza?
MENDOZA
Yes.
POSTMAN
Special delivery letter for you sir.
The Postman hands the man an envelope. He signs for it and
opens the envelope. It is a newspaper clipping...
ANGLE ON THE NEWSPAPER CLIPPING
The headline is: NAVAL OFFICER AND FAMILY KILLED IN FIERY
CRASH. There is a handwritten note attached. It says, "Rest
in Peace."
POSTMAN
Not bad news I hope.
MENDOZA
Someone... died.
POSTMAN
I'm so sorry.
MENDOZA
This guy's better off dead.
POSTMAN
No one is better off dead I think.
MENDOZA
Some people are.
He tips the postman and closes the door.
WE SUPER the following: SUDAN 1994
Two bodyguard types wait outside the building at the entrance.
An old man who walks with a cane and whose face is horribly
disfigured by burns hobbles in to the medical building. He
passes a plaque on the wall that says in English and Arabic:
DR. WASFI MUHAMMED, M.D.; PhD.
Cosmetic and Plastic Surgery
We SUPER THE FOLLOWING:
NO FURTHER ACTS OF TERRORISM WERE EVER ATTRIBUTED TO CARLOS
AGAIN. HE MOVED TO YEMEN, THEN JORDAN, THEN SYRIA AND FINALLY
TO THE SUDAN.
The scene is as before. The two bodyguards stand watch.
Suddenly a car pulls up. Another bodyguard gets out and out
of this car steps Carlos. The bodyguards acknowledge him as
he enters the building.
An ambulance is pulled up at the rear entrance and two
attendants push a gurney out of the building with a patient
whose face is covered by an oxygen mask. The two attendants
push the gurney into the ambulance and race off.
CARLOS WAS FINALLY ARRESTED IN THE SUDAN AND FLOWN TO FRANCE
TO STAND TRIAL IN AUGUST OF 1994.
As the ambulance pulls off with its siren blaring, WE CONTINUE
WITH THE CRAWL:
INTELLIGENCE SOURCES BELIEVE HE WAS TRADED TO THE FRENCH BY
THE SUDANESE GOVERNMENT IN A BID TO OBTAIN WESTERN AID. THERE
ARE RUMORS THAT TWO RETIRED CIA AGENTS PLANNED AND EXECUTED
HIS CAPTURE.
THE END
Assignment, The
Writers : Dan GordonSabi H. Shabtai
Genres : Thriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb