A decaying no man's land populated by condemned buildings and HUNGRY
HOMELESS. Steam rises from manhole covers, drifting across the
litter- lined streets. Suddenly --
A black Mercedes 850 appears over the crest of a hill, ROARING past
us, stereo system belting out FILTER.
The 850 threads a narrow alley into a vacant lot, BRAKES hard. Raquel
and Dennis climb out. She leads him into --
Industry never sleeps, and certainly not this grisly facility. Raquel
leads Dennis around the back of the plant, where a host of WORKERS
are loading refrigerated trucks with product.
DENNIS
What the fuck are we doing here?
Raquel just smiles, heads on into the plant via a loading door. The
workers ignore her.
Blade clears the impossible distance -- almost. He snags the ledge of
the adjacent parking structure with his left hand even as Karen slips
from the grasp of his right --
-- a last-second save, his fingers clamping around her wrist, is all
that stands between Karen and street pizza. She SCREAMS anyway,
dangling below him --
Blade GRUNTS, swinging Karen like a pendulum, heaving her up and over
the ledge as if she were a sack of potatoes. She lands on her
shoulder, clutching it in pain --
Blade heaves himself up, crouching beside her.
KAREN
(gasping)
My shoulder -- dislocated --
Blade places a hand on her shoulder, another around her elbow and
without any consideration to discomfort -CRACK!- brutally pops it
back in place. Karen SCREAMS again as he scoops her up once more and
heads for --
HIS '69 OLDSMOBILE 442,
which is parked nearby. Midnight-black. The definitive high-
performance heavy-metal muscle machine with an engine big enough to
power an Apollo rocket.
Blade pilots the Olds down the streets, moving through a series of
increasingly degenerating neighborhoods, coming at last to the
sprawling warehouse district.
The Olds approaches a mammoth industrial facility that's been
cordoned off by cyclone fencing and razor wire. Ultra-violet
floodlights illuminate the area, while an army of security cameras
keep a watchful eye.
A gate grinds open.
We follow the Olds as it cruises around the back of the building,
heading down a concrete loading ramp. At the bottom of the ramp, a
heavy iron door rises. Blade's Olds disappears into the darkness.
As Karen climbs out, Blade swings the door shut behind her. The Olds
ROARS off down the quiet residential street.
Blade and Karen are now standing by Gideon's police cruiser which is
parked outside Karen's apartment. Blade shoves Gideon against the
hood of the cruiser. He finds Gideon's keys, moves to the trunk,
opens it --
IN THE TRUNK --
A sophisticated medical cooling unit for transporting organs. Blade
opens the unit, coolant vapor hisses out. Inside are plastic bags
containing blood.
BLADE
Looks like our friend was
blood-running.
(to Gideon)
Where were you headed?
Gideon mumbles through a split lip and chipped teeth --
GIDEON
Mphuck you --
WHAM! Blade plants Gideon's face into the hood of the car. Gideon
GROANS, coughs --
GIDEON
Jesus -- 1227 Brookner --
Holliston Clinic --
Blade releases him, then reaches for his Casull.
KAREN
What are you doing?!
BLADE
Preventive medicine.
Karen steps in front of Blade, shielding Gideon.
KAREN
You can't do this, he's human, it's
murder.
BLADE
It's war, now get the fuck out of the
way!
Karen grabs Blade's arm, wrestling with him, trying to push his hand
away. As the two of them struggle, Gideon makes a break for it,
stumbling across the lawn. Blade pushes Karen aside, takes aim,
FIRES --
-- but Gideon ducks into an alley, disappearing from sight. Blade
spins on Karen, enraged --
BLADE
God-damnit!!! Do you have any idea
what you just did?! He'll warn them.
They'll be waiting!
But Karen's defiant, she's not backing down.
KAREN
You were going to kill him. What was I
supposed to do?! Shut my eyes and
pretend I didn't see what I saw?
Blade tears off his glasses. Karen gasps --
BLADE'S EYES
aren't human, nor are they vampire. They're something else -- emerald
green, laced with swirling flecks of red.
BLADE
Let me set you straight on something,
Doctor. What you've "seen" so far is
nothing. The world you live in's just
the sugar-coated topping. There's
another world beneath it, the real
world -- and it's a fucking bloodbath.
If you want to survive in it, you'd
better pull your head out of your ass.
Blade slips his glasses back on, leaving Karen shocked into silence.
He heads for his Olds without looking back, climbs in, guns the
engine. In seconds, he's gone, tearing off down the street in a cloud
of exhaust.
We are soaring through the air above the gleaming city skyline,
moving towards the Edgewood Towers whose windows reflect the blood-
red sinking sun.
Blade's Olds cruises to a stop. We're in a low-end commercial
district -- junky heaven. Blade climbs out, pulling an automatic
rifle from the back seat, then heading into an alleyway.
Blade makes his way down the alley, cautious -- he SEES mountains of
trash, boarded-up windows, overlapping layers of gang graffiti -- a
RAT crouching on a trash dumpster, gnawing on a dead pigeon --
-- then a SOUND behind Blade, the scuffle of feet --
Blade whirls, drawing his sword, CHARGING at an approaching shadow,
stopping mere millimeters from decapitating --
KAREN,
who's been backed up against the wall, her eyes wide with fright.
Blade's sword vibrates from the tension in his forearm, having drawn
just the slightest taste of blood.
BLADE
What the hell are you doing?! I could
have killed you!
Blade lowers his sword. Karen remembers to breathe. She slumps,
tracing her fingers over the line where her head almost parted with
her body.
KAREN
I remembered the address. I followed
you --
Blade shakes his head, amazed.
BLADE
Do you have a death wish or are you
just stupid?
Karen pushes away from the wall, angry --
KAREN
Look, if what you say is true, if
there's a chance I could turn into one
of them, then I've got no choice, do
I? I have to work with you. I need to
learn everything I can about them.
It's the only way I'll be able to find
a cure for myself.
BLADE
There is no cure.
KAREN
(defiant)
You don't know that.
Blade turns and moves to the end of the alley, studying the graffiti-
covered wall intently --
KAREN
What are you looking at?
BLADE
(gesturing)
What do you see here?
KAREN
Graffiti --
BLADE
Look closer.
Blade indicates a design amongst the various gang-banger tags that
looks something like a post-modern hieroglyphic.
BLADE
This isn't a gang tag, it's a vampire
marking. It means there's a safe-house
nearby.
A place they can go if dawn is coming.
Blade points to a building across the street --
THE HOLLISTON CLINIC,
your basic inner-city blood-barter establishment where desperate
transients parley their plasma into cash.
KAREN
(recognizing it)
I know this place -- it's a blood
bank.
BLADE
Owned by vampires. There's one of
these in every major city, and just
like Domino's, they always deliver.
(looking to Karen)
You telling me you're ready to walk
through that door?
Karen nods. Blade continues to stare at her, taking her measure --
there's a strength in this woman's eyes, she has the soul of a
fighter -- and Blade recognizes it.
BLADE
All right, then, listen up, Vampire
Anatomy 101. Crosses and running water
don't do dick, so forget what you've
seen in the movies.
Blade enumerates the following on his fingers:
BLADE
You use the stake, silver, or
sunlight, got it?
Blade holds up one of his Casulls.
BLADE
Know how to use one of these?
Karen takes the weapon from him, eyes all over it.
KAREN
No.
Blade takes the gun back, snorting derisively.
BLADE
Safety's off, round's already
chambered --
(cocking it)
Silver hollow-points filled with
garlic. You aim for the heart or the
head, anything else is a one-way
ticket to a pine box.
Blade hand it to her again, then starts across the street towards the
clinic. Karen follows --
Tokyo town. A black edifice, no windows, secured parking, no signage
except for a purple neon scroll above the entrance -- a FLASHING
KANJI, just like the glyph tattooed on Tanaka's neck.
Tanaka's Mustang pulls into the parking lot. He climbs out, flagging
away the valets, heads inside --
WHIP PAN TO
Blade's Olds stopping a few blocks down the street.
Blade and Karen climb out. He lets his shotgun fall within the folds
of his longcoat and starts across the street -- only to be challenged
by a HULKING DOORMAN at the entrance.
DOORMAN
I'm sorry, sir -- do you have an
invitation?
Frost stands at the window, looking out at the glimmering cityscape
before him.
FADE IN on Dragonetti, his face covered with a black condemned man's
hood --
Frost stands before him, grinning like the Cheshire Cat. He's dressed
from head to toe in a black motorcycle suit -- boots, gloves, a
visored helmet tucked under one arm. Mercury and Quinn are standing
nearby, similarly attired.
We're on a stretch of rocky coastline, tucked away in a secluded
cove. Dragonetti has been stripped bare, chained like Prometheus to
an ancient standing stone.
DRAGONETTI
(straining)
What is this? Where am I?!
Frost steps forward, pulling Dragonetti's hood off. Dragonetti stares
at his surroundings, horrified.
FROST
When was the last time you stopped to
appreciate a sunrise, Dragonetti?
Three, four hundred years?
Frost checks his watch, then looks to the ocean. On the horizon, a
sliver of gold appears.
FROST
How do you like that? Right on time.
DRAGONETTI
(snarling)
The other elders will never let you
get away with this!
Just then, the TWELVE VAMPIRE ELDERS emerge behind Frost, forming a
circle around Dragonetti. All wear business suits, gloves, along with
high-tech "sun masks" to protect their faces from the light's lethal
rays.
They stare at Dragonetti like a silent jury. His face darkens, anger
rising -- but there's a desperation in his eyes now too. He speaks in
the secret tongue:
DRAGONETTI
(subtitled)
Don't you see, you fools?! He'll
betray you too! He's planning on
invoking LaMagra himself!
The vampires just smile and shake their heads.
FROST
The wheel turns, old fang. Guess you
just got a little too long in the
tooth.
Dragonetti's cries are cut short as Frost forces the aging vampire's
mouth open, ripping out his fangs with his bare hands. Dragonetti
GURGLES and SHRIEKS, sounding like a dying animal.
Frost turns to face the Twelve now, his eyes bright with victory. He
pulls on his motorcycle helmet, as do Mercury and Quinn.
Behind them, Dragonetti struggles furiously against his chains to no
avail as the first faint rays of daylight fall upon him, channeled
inward by the natural formation of the cove --
Dragonetti HOWLS, his skin beginning sizzle and smoke. Then he
catches fire like paper beneath a magnifying glass. He thrashes about
as his flesh starts to run from his body.
THE VAMPIRE ELDERS
watch, impassive, protected by their masks --
-- when suddenly, TWELVE FIGURES rise up behind them, clad in bike
helmets and black leather, just like Frost. The intruders grip each
of the Elders in a strangle hold, ripping their masks off.
FROST
Dragonetti was right. You were fools
to trust me.
Frost flips down the visor of his helmet even as --
THE RED SUN
rises in all its fiery glory.
One by one, the vampire Elder's heads catch fire, skullflesh sizzling
away -- burning down the line of them in successively building
intensity until all twelve EXPLODE in a conflagration of BLINDING
WHITE LIGHT.
Frost and his compatriots are blown off their feet by the sheer
intensity of the occult blast -- a blast which sends the skeletal
bodies of the Elders SLAMMING into the rock wall.
When it's over, Frost picks himself back up. We SEE that the only
thing left of Dragonetti and the others are --
THIRTEEN SHADOW SILHOUETTES
permanently etched onto the rock's surface, just like the bombing
victims of Hiroshima.
Blade makes his way down a street lined with vending stalls --
passing MERCHANTS peddling exotic vegetables and cheap curios,
butcher shops with rows of roast ducks in the window, tyro GANG-
BANGERS lounging at the entrance to a video arcade.
BLADE'S POV
Even though the streets are crowded, the people seem to make way for
him, avoiding eye-contact.
Blade turns into a dark alley, ducking into the doorway of a hole-in-
the-wall herbalist shop.
Blade emerges from the alley into the sunlight, then hears his name
WHISPERED on the wind.
VOICE (o.s.)
Blade.
Blade spins, scanning his surroundings -- did he really hear his
name, or was it just the wind?
VOICE (o.s.)
Blade.
Again, the taunting voice calls him. Blade's gaze finally settles
on --
A MAN
sitting on a bench in the deep shade, his face obscured by the
Chinese newspaper he's reading. There's a LITTLE GIRL sitting stiffly
beside the man -- a look of pure terror written on her face.
MAN
Afternoon, Blade.
The man lowers his newspaper. It's Deacon Frost. He's wearing
sunglasses, but otherwise, he's seemingly unprotected by the sun.
Blade reaches for his .454 --
FROST
Easy.
Frost's hand rests on the back of the girl's neck. We see his claws
extend, caressing the flesh beneath her chin.
FROST
Wouldn't want our little friend here
to wind up on the back of a milk
carton, would we?
Blade reluctantly lowers his hand. Frost smiles. He takes in a deep
breath of air, savoring it.
FROST
Beautiful day, isn't it?
BLADE
(confused)
How can you be out here?
FROST
I dabble in pharmaceuticals, medical
research. We've developed a type of
sun-blocker using octyl salicylate, a
few others things.
On closer examination we see that Frost is wearing a translucent
lotion on his face. He touches a finger to his cheek, rubs some of
the lotion between his fingers.
FROST
It's not very effective in direct
sunlight, but it's a start. The goal,
of course, is to be like you, "the
Day-walker".
BLADE
I don't buy it.
FROST
Why not? The future of our race runs
through your bloodstream. You've got
the best of both worlds, Blade. All of
our strengths and none of our
weaknesses.
BLADE
Maybe I don't see it that way.
FROST
Oh, so it's back to pretending we're
human again, is it? Spare me the Uncle
Tom routine. You can't keep denying
what you are. You're one of us, Blade.
You always have been.
BLADE
You're wrong.
FROST
Am I? You think the humans will ever
accept a half-breed like you? They
can't. They're afraid of you.
(pointedly)
The humans fear us because we're
superior. They fear us because in
their hearts they know their race has
become obsolete.
Frost watches the marketers stream past, sneering in contempt.
FROST
Look at them, just an endless stream
of cattle in a mad race to the
slaughterhouse.
Frost lifts a silver flask to his mouth, taking a swig of blood. He
smacks his lips, sighs contentedly --
FROST
The pause that refreshes --
(offering it to Blade)
Care for some? Smells good, doesn't
it? Pungent, with just an
irrepressible hint of iron.
BLADE
Pass.
FROST
You sure now? I bled a newborn for
this. You won't find a drink that's
sweeter.
It takes every ounce of Blade's self-control to keep from attacking
Frost -- and Frost senses this, pressing his sharp thumbnail against
the child's jugular.
FROST
Tell me honestly, do you really get
the same rush from that pasteurized
piss-serum of yours?
(off Blade's look)
You're surprised I know about your
serum? You shouldn't be. I know
everything about you.
Frost leans forward, grinning.
FROST
You can't keep walking the razor's
edge, Blade. The day will come -- and
soon, when you'll have to choose
between our kind and their's. If I
were you, I'd take care not to wind up
on the wrong end of the fang.
A bead of sweat runs down Frost's neck, washing away a minute amount
of the sun-blocking cream. The patch of exposed skin instantly
blackens. Frost gazes upwards at the sun.
FROST
Love to continue this chat, but it
appears I'm melting.
Frost rises, taking the little girl by the hand. Blade follows, his
hand resting on the butt of his Casull.
BLADE
You're not going anywhere.
FROST
(growling)
Watch me.
Frost's eyes flicker towards the street -- a CITY BUS is rumbling by.
In a heartbeat, Frost hurls the little girl forward --
-- out into the path of the oncoming bus!
Blade has a split-second to act. It's Frost or the girl -- and for a
moment we actually think he's going to go for Frost --
-- but then he DIVES forward, scooping the girl into his arms,
throwing themselves out of the bus' path. The bus misses them by a
hair. By the time Blade looks up again --
-- Frost is gone. Blade rises, cursing, scanning the street as
market-goers gather around him.
WHIP PAN TO --
SOMEONE sitting astride a motorcycle, watching Blade from the roof of
an elevated parking garage. The rider is clad from head to toe in a
helmet and black leather -- Mercury.
Blade's Olds cruises into the gated grounds. It zips down the ramp
way into the loading elevator.
BACK BY THE TRAIN TRACKS --
Mercury's cycle rolls into frame. She picks up a radio handset and
keys it.
MERCURY
(into radio)
This is Mercury. Tell Deacon I've
found their hiding place.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON Karen as she moves to the grimy outer windows, watching the
sun go down, an unmistakable look of dread creeping over her.
CUT TO:
Windy. Urban desolation. Blade stands on the perimeter of a sprawling
cardboard and plywood squatter's ghetto which has sprung up around
the city dump. CHILDREN and DOGS forage for salvageable items, while
in the distance, dumptrucks grind over the dunes of refuse.
MOMENTS LATER,
Blade is winding his way through the maze of makeshift homes and
ashcan fires. A CROWD quickly closes in around him, suspicious. A
BRUTISH MAN steps forward, challenging him --
MAN
Extranjero. Quien es?
BLADE
I'm here to see Miracia. Kam sent me.
The man turns to his fellow squatters, WHISPERING. After a heated
debate, a GAUNT WOMAN steps forward, motioning --
WOMAN
This way.
CUT TO:
Blade is led to a plywood cabin crowded with candle-lit altars --
garish pictures of Saints and demons abound, alongside bottles of
roots and herbs steeped in alcohol, human bones, voodoo dolls.
MIRACIA
sits on a sagging couch outside, clutching a deck of well-thumbed
Bicycle playing cards. She's ancient, with a mouthful of gold-capped
teeth and cataract-clouded eyes. Blind.
MIRACIA
Is something wrong, my friend?
BLADE
You're blind --
MIRACIA
There are other ways to see. Sit.
Blade approaches, uneasy. Miracia deals out the playing cards on a
rickety table, setting them in nine piles which take on a cross
formation.
MIRACIA
Perhaps you have brought me something
-- an offering for the orishas?
Blade tosses a handful of bills on the table. Miracia nods, then
flips over the first card in the center pile -- a one-eyed Jack. She
sighs, grave --
MIRACIA
Hold out your hands.
BLADE
I didn't come here to get my palms
read. I need something translated.
MIRACIA
Show me.
Blade removes parchment fragment from his jacket and sets it on the
table. Miracia traces her fingers over the ancient paper, touching
her fingertips to her lips.
MIRACIA
Sangre. Written in blood.
She runs her hands over each line as if it were written in Braille.
Some of the candles gutter, then extinguish themselves as the wind
around them rises.
MIRACIA
This is an old tongue, from an old
world. It concerns LaMagra.
BLADE
Who is LaMagra?
MIRACIA
The vampire God. This speaks of His
return.
Miracia's fingers search the parchment again.
MIRACIA
"-- there will come a Day Walker."
(reading)
"His blood will call the Sleeper from
beyond the Veil of Tears."
Blade stares at Miracia, shaken.
BLADE
His blood -- ?
The old woman nods, reaching for a smoldering cigarette.
MIRACIA
The Day Walker's blood is a disparador
-- a trigger, you see? For LaMagra's
return. One need only consume it and
the spirit of his ancestors will
settle upon him.
(reading)
"And the Sleeper will rise from the
shadows anew, cleansing the world in a
Tide of Blood."
BLADE
(recalling the phrase)
"The Blood Tide".
MIRACIA
(nodding)
Yes. The vampire apocalypse. It is
said that all who feel its taint will
succumb to the Thirst.
BLADE
How do I stop it?
Miracia shrugs, spreading her hands.
MIRACIA
The Great Wheel turns, my friend. The
Dark is rising. How would you fight a
shadow?
Miracia sits back, slumping into her chair. The candles have burnt
themselves down to nothing.
MIRACIA
I am tired. Dawn is coming.
BLADE
But I just got here --
MIRACIA
You've been here longer than you
think.
Blade rises, looking to the horizon. Incredibly, dawn is coming. As
he stands there, mystified, the wind picks up, sweeping the parchment
fragment out of his hand. He tries to snatch it back, but the
fragment is quickly borne away. He watches it disappear into the sky,
then turns back --
Miracia is gone. Blade glances around him, but she's nowhere to be
found.
CAMERA PULLS BACK,
isolating Blade amidst the ghostly squalor. From our vantage point,
he looks like any other homeless phantom.
BLADE'S POV
A telephoto view of Frost's penthouse. The windows are polarized,
blocking out the sun's harsh rays.
Blade lowers a pair of binoculars. He's standing on the roof of a
building across the street. He hefts an air-launcher rifle up into
firing position --
BANG! An iron spike trailing a steel cable rockets through the air
between the two buildings, sinking into the concrete facade of
Frost's penthouse. Blade secures his end of the rope. He slips a
pulley over the rope, grabs hold of two handles, and leaps off the
roof ledge!
WHOOSH! Blade slides towards Frost's penthouse, a good twenty stories
above street level. A second before he reaches the windows, Blade
lets go. Momentum sends him CRASHING through in a shower of glass.
The vampire tumbles earthward, SCREAMING as the sun's rays ignite his
body, falling like a human comet.
Blade and Karen are dragged from the back of the truck, which is
revealed now to be an armored car.
THE BANK OF EREBUS
rises up before them. A towering beaux-arts edifice situated in the
heart of the city's high-priced financial district -- one of the many
institutions owned and operated by the vampire enclave.
Frost starts up the marble steps towards a grand, triple-arched
entrance flanked by Corinthian columns. Karen and Blade are dragged
along after him.
Every door and window of the bank is BLOWN OUTWARD from the force of
the EXPLOSION. While along the street, manhole covers flip from their
moorings, spinning up into the air like dimes, being buoyed by
geysers of blood.
Blade and Karen stand on the rooftop, watching as dawn slowly creeps
across the silent city.
KAREN
I never imagined I'd be so happy to
see the sun rise --
(turning to him)
It's over, isn't it?
BLADE
For them. But for me --
He lifts his face towards the rising sun, letting its warmth wash
over his upturned face.
BLADE
I feel like it's finally beginning.
And on that note we leave them -- TWO FIGURES, silhouetted against
the new day.
FADE TO BLACK.
THE END
Blade
Writers : David S. Goyer
Genres : ActionHorrorSci-Fi
User Comments
Back to IMSDb