Bare as all hell. The trees stripped of their bark and white
like ghosts. Some torn violently from their roots and felled.
STARK GRAY SUNLIGHT shafts between the trees, clouded by a
creeping fog that obscures the true color of everything. A
LIGHT SNOW flutters. The world monochrome, lifeless and cold.
A CAT prowls across the dead earth. Barely recognizable as
the domestic breed it might once have been. Its fur mangy and
rank, body rib-thin from starvation. Entirely feral.
It moves slowly, cautiously. Sniffing the air, scanning the
forest, alert. Trusting nothing of its surroundings. It paces
across a leaf-strewn clearing, closing stealthily on:
A DEAD MAN, splayed face-down in the earth. His feet bare.
Face frozen in a grim death mask. A GAPING GUNSHOT WOUND in
his head, the dried blood caked around it matting his hair.
As the cat moves closer, approaching warily:
P.O.V. FROM ACROSS THE CLEARING
About thirty yards away. Someone is watching. Waiting. SLOW,
DEEP BREATHS, heard through a GASMASK RESPIRATOR.
CLOSE ON A PAIR OF INDUSTRIAL GOGGLES
The MIRRORED LENSES reflecting the forest clearing, locked
onto the cat. The slow, metered breathing continues.
THE CAT slows, but continues pacing toward the corpse. More
cautious than ever. It inches forward, sniffing at the body.
ON THE WATCHER. Crouched behind the mangled stump of a felled
tree. Concealed beneath a camouflaging mesh of leaves, twigs
and bracken. A "ghillie suit" of the kind used by snipers.
THE CAT sniffs at the dead man's hand, frozen by death in a
grotesquely contorted claw. The animal still unsure. Looks
around again, checking its surroundings for predators.
THE WATCHER moves almost imperceptibly. The leaves covering
him rustle ever so slightly as we hear - just barely - the
familiar creaking sound of a BOW STRING BEING DRAWN TAUT.
THE CAT hears it. Looks up, alert. Staring right at the
watcher, but he is too well camouflaged to be seen. An
interminable, tense BEAT - is the prey going to flee?
Finally, the cat turns its attention back to the carcass,
nibbling gingerly at the flesh of the man's fingers.
2.
THE WATCHER looses the arrow. It sails across the clearing
and SKEWERS THE CAT clean through. It drops to the ground.
THE WATCHER STANDS, shaking off the ghillie suit, revealing
him to us for the first time.
He wears a weather-beaten knee-length duster. Hooded sweater
with more layers beneath that. Torn pants and scuffed work
boots. Everything filthy and battered from years of wear.
Along with the goggles, his face remains obscured by a
DISPOSABLE PAPER DUST MASK and a CRUDELY-FASHIONED FUR HAT
with dangling ear flaps that may once itself have been a cat.
Around his neck he wears a silver SAINT CHRISTOPHER PENDANT
hanging from a frayed twine cord.
His name is ELI.
He shoulders the bow and walks across the clearing. Crouches
beside the dead cat and pulls out the arrow. Wipes the blood
from the shaft, then reaches down to collect the body.
Suddenly the cat SCREECHES AND FLAILS WILDLY! Eli recoils,
falling backward, stunned, as the cat - MORTALLY WOUNDED BUT
FIGHTING TO THE DEATH - bites and claws desperately at him.
Eli struggles violently with the cat, wrestling it to the
ground and grabbing up a HUNK OF FALLEN BRANCH. He holds the
writhing animal down and CLUBS IT until it lays still.
He sits back, breathing harder than the dustmask will allow.
He yanks it down, revealing the dirty, unshaven face beneath.
Impossible to tell his age, but certainly not a young man.
For a moment he just sits there. Then bundles up the dead cat
and returns to the mangled tree stump. Folds away his ghillie
suit into a nearby RUCKSACK which he hauls up onto his back.
A canteen dangles from the backpack, a SHOTGUN strapped to
its side. Eli reaches down for his final possession - an old
SAMURAI SWORD in a scabbard which he slings across his back.
He gazes up at the sky. A snowflake drifts down and lands on
his cheek. He reaches up and brushes it away, leaving a BLACK
SMEAR on his face. Not snow after all, but some kind of ASH.
Eli emerges from the treeline onto the cracked and ruptured
asphalt. Lined by more of those ghostly, stripped-bare trees.
3.
He sniffs the air, breathing it in. Checks the road in both
directions. Deserted. A few yards away is the rusted, burned-
out chassis of a CAR. He heads toward it.
The car rests half on the road, half in the adjacent ditch.
Stripped of its tires and engine. In the driver's seat is a
MUMMIFIED BODY. A BULLET HOLE piercing its forehead.
Eli regards the body dispassionately. Tries the door handle
but it's jammed. He yanks on it harder and eventually
wrenches it open. He leans in and checks the man's feet.
They're bare. No shoes or socks. Eli curses under his breath.
He leaves the car behind and heads on down the road. As he
walks away, we see that the sole of one of his boots has worn
loose, held in place now only by a rubber band.
Eli continues down the road. He ambles along slowly, a man in
no hurry. A man who has been walking a long time.
The road has since emerged from the forest. Passing now
through a wasteland of dead scrub brush and urban junk.
The sun beats down from directly overhead. The sky has no
color to it, paper-white. The unfiltered sun's stark light
leaves everything seeming bleached-out, over-exposed.
CRANE UP as Eli walks on. On the horizon is the silhouette of
a CITY. Or what was once a city. Columns of BLACK SMOKE rise
from within, casting a deathly pall over the skyline. BURNED
AND BROKEN SKYSCRAPERS jut out like tombstones.
Eli reaches a fork in the road and stops. The road he's on
appears to wind off in the direction of the ruined city on
the horizon. The other fork continues on into the wasteland.
After a brief pause, Eli changes direction and heads off down
the other fork, away from the city.
Little more than a main street lined with storefronts. Eli
walks steadily along, side-stepping rubble and debris.
Ignoring the petrified corpses lying in the street.
He passes by abandoned stores, every one picked clean. Empty
shelves, smashed windows. Looted and burned. He doesn't even
look inside, knowing already that he will find nothing.
Until he comes to a store that does cause him to stop. An old-
fashioned sign squeaks on rusted hinges in the breeze.
4.
ED'S SHOES - GENTLEMEN'S AND LADIES' FOOTWEAR
He steps into the doorway and pushes open the door. It swings
open on its one remaining hinge before splintering away from
the frame and crashing to the floor in a cloud of dust.
On the outskirts of town. In disrepair - peeling paint,
broken windows, damp-stained walls - but habitable.
Eli stands in the front yard, surrounded by brownish,
overgrown weeds. Thinking it over. Turns to face the setting
sun. It will be dark soon. He turns back toward the house.
The gate squeaks shut behind Eli as he exits the front yard.
He breathes in the air, turns to feel the warm morning sun on
his face. Then turns away from it and walks on down the road.
The landscape barren and featureless, road lined with dead
trees. Eli walks along the warped and broken asphalt.
The road is strewn with burned-out cars and debris from a
world long dead. A warped metal sign by the side of the road
reads: LITTER REMOVAL NEXT TWO MILES BY: "CIRCUIT CITY".
Up ahead is a HUNCHED FIGURE by the side of the road. Eli
arrives to see that it's a YOUNG WOMAN. Bone-thin, dressed in
filthy rags. Skin plagued by an unpleasant rash.
The SHOPPING CART she was pushing has overturned into a
roadside ditch, spilling its contents. Blankets, tins of
food, old clothes. She's on her knees trying to gather it up.
She looks up as she sees Eli approaching. Instantly cowers
from him, raising her hands to protect herself. Terrified.
YOUNG WOMAN
Oh. Please don't hurt me. Here,
take anything you want. You want
some food? Take it.
She offers him a can of pet food with a trembling hand. Eli
stands there looking at her. His expression impossible to
read behind the mirrored goggles.
ELI
I'm not going to hurt you.
YOUNG WOMAN
That's what the last guys said.
Eli bends down and picks up a couple of the cart's spilled
contents. Steps forward and offers them to her.
ELI
Here.
8.
She blinks. Unsure. Cautiously she reaches out and takes it.
YOUNG WOMAN
Could you help me? The wheel came
off. I can't fix it. Maybe if I
could get it out of the ditch. But
I can't.
Eli looks at the cart. It has come to rest in the ditch just
inches from a THICK BRACKEN HEDGEROW that lines the road.
He looks again at the girl. Her faded blouse is unbuttoned,
revealing a little cleavage. Her skirt torn along the leg,
showing more than a little thigh. Almost deliberate.
He sniffs the air. Watches the hedgerow warily. Just like the
cat he hunted, his senses heightened and on alert.
Behind the hedge, THREE ROADSIDE BANDITS are crouched,
waiting to pounce. Each armed with a crude blunt weapon. They
exchange anxious looks.
ELI sniffs the air again - then backs away from the girl.
ELI
One good thing about no soap any
more. You can smell the road agents
a mile off.
The girl's face falls as Eli backs up. The three bandits
EMERGE FROM THE HEDGEROW, brandishing their weapons. A couple
of them wear old sunglasses and goggles similar to Eli's.
The BANDIT LEADER grabs the girl by a fistful of hair as he
passes, yanking her painfully to her feet.
BANDIT LEADER
Dumb bitch. What did we tell you?
He pushes her away, she crumples to the road in a heap.
Eli backs away, but TWO MORE ARMED BANDITS drop from hiding
in the trees behind, cutting off his escape, surrounding him.
BANDIT LEADER
What you got there in the pack?
ELI
Nothing.
BANDIT LEADER
Yeah, that's what they all say. How
about you take it off real slow and
tip it out so's we can take a look?
9.
BANDIT #2 notices the shotgun strapped to the pack.
BANDIT #2
He's got a gun.
BANDIT LEADER
Shit, it ain't loaded. They never
are. Ain't that right, old man?
(BEAT)
Open the fucking pack or die.
ELI
I can't do that.
The bandit leader steps forward aggressively. Now within
striking distance of Eli. He grins, teeth filthy and rotten.
BANDIT LEADER
Want us to do it for you? We can
get it off real easy after we've
hacked your fucking arms off.
Eli remains perfectly calm. And though he speaks with a soft,
even tone, there is something formidable about his voice.
ELI
It's real important you boys listen
to me and understand. The man I
work for, you do not want to cross
him. See, I'm under his protection.
You stand in my way, you stand in
his. And he will cut you down with
a righteous fury - through me. For
I am his faithful instrument.
BEAT. The bandit leader looks at Eli incredulously... and
then LAUGHS. The other bandits laugh along nervously.
BANDIT LEADER
What the hell are you, some kinda
preacher?
ELI
Something like that.
BANDIT LEADER
Well I got news for you, preacher
man. Whatever kinda God you reckon
yourself to be working for, he left
these parts a long time ago. He
ain't here to protect your ass. Now
take off the pack and set it on the
ground.
10.
Eli doesn't move, doesn't say a word. The bandit leader takes
another step forward and shoves him in the shoulder.
BANDIT LEADER
You fucking listening to me?
ELI
I hear you. You lay that hand on me
again and you will not get it back.
The other bandits exchange nervous looks. This is not how
it's supposed to go.
BANDIT LEADER
All right, I had just about enough
of this shit...
He lunges forward, grabs the shoulder strap of Eli's pack.
If you blinked, you missed it. But somehow Eli has now drawn
his sword. A RIVULET OF BLOOD snakes down along the blade and
drips onto the asphalt.
Bandit leader's hand is still gripped firmly around Eli's
shoulder strap. But it's no longer connected to his arm. The
SEVERED HAND hangs there from the strap, dripping blood.
Bandit leader staggers backward and raises the bloody stump
where his hand once was. Looks at it in shock and horror.
BANDIT LEADER
What... you just... he just cut my
fucking hand off! My fucking hand!
Eli pries the hand loose from the strap and tosses it onto
the road as bandit leader's legs give out and he slumps to
the asphalt. His eyes dart around, as though confused.
BANDIT LEADER
What you standin' around for? Kiss
him!
BANDIT #3
What's he talkin' about, kiss him?
ELI
He's in shock. He means "kill him".
A tense BEAT. And then the four remaining bandits ATTACK ELI
ALL AT ONCE, weapons flailing.
Eli flourishes the sword. A BLUR, TOO FAST TO FOLLOW. But
it's clear he is possessed of an inhuman level of skill.
11.
It is over in moments. The four bandits LAY SLAIN IN THE
ROAD, blood pooling out onto the asphalt.
The bandit leader crawls toward his severed hand, a few yards
away. Eli steps in and kicks it out of his reach.
ELI
I told you you wouldn't be getting
that back.
Bandit leader looks up to see the figure of Eli bearing down
on him, silhouetted ominously against the sun. He looks for a
moment like an avenging angel, something not of this world.
BANDIT LEADER
Who are you?
ELI
My name is Eli.
And with that, Eli runs him through with his sword.
He turns to see the young woman slumped in the road, sobbing.
She cowers again as he approaches, certain that she is next.
He WALKS PAST HER. Sheathes his sword, then pulls out the
shopping cart from the ditch and rights it. The woman watches
incredulously as he gathers up her supplies into the cart.
ELI
Take it and go on your way. And
don't fall in with men like these
again. No good can come.
She looks at him, puzzled.
YOUNG WOMAN
Why are you doing this?
Eli says nothing. Walks back to the slain bandits, crouches
beside them and begins searching their bodies.
He takes a scarf from around the neck of one. Finds a Zippo
lighter on another, checks that it works and pockets it.
LATER
The five bodies are lined neatly in the ditch, half-covered
with dirt. The best burial they are going to get.
Eli stands before them, head bowed in prayer. He speaks
quietly and quickly, a speech he has given many times.
12.
ELI
God, the father of mercies, through
the death and resurrection of his
son has reconciled the world to
himself and sent the holy spirit
among us for the forgiveness of
sins.
The young woman stands a few yards away, watching him,
transfixed. She has never seen anyone like him.
ELI
Through the ministry of the church
may he give you pardon and peace,
and I absolve you from your sins in
the name of the father, and of the
son, and of the holy spirit. Amen.
He turns and walks away down the road, passing the woman.
YOUNG WOMAN
Thank you. You're... a good man.
ELI
There are no good men on the road.
YOUNG WOMAN
Where are you going?
ELI
West.
YOUNG WOMAN
Can... can I come with you?
He doesn't even turn back to look at her.
ELI
No.
He walks on, into the horizon.
Straddling the desert like a giant, crumbling monument to a
long-dead civilization. Eli steadily climbs his way up.
He comes to an abrupt stop as we realize suddenly that the
overpass has COLLAPSED at mid-point. RUSTED IRON RODS jut out
from where the roadway has been severed.
Eli just stands there at the edge for a moment, feeling the
wind whip around him, his coat fluttering in the breeze.
13.
The overpass's collapsed section is now just a MOUNTAINOUS
PILE OF RUBBLE that leads down to the road below.
Eli steps onto the rubble. About to make his way down when he
FREEZES. He hears something. The faintest of sounds. He takes
cover, peering down at the road beneath the overpass to see:
TWO PEOPLE walking together on the road. We see everything
from ELI'S P.O.V. - too far to make out much detail, but
apparently it is a MIDDLE-AGED COUPLE.
The man pushes along an OLD WHEELBARROW covered by a tarp as
the woman, seemingly his wife, walks alongside. The barrow's
rusted wheel gives out a plaintive, rhythmic SQUEAK.
Eli ducks down again as he hears something else. This time
much louder. The menacing growl of MOTORCYCLE ENGINES.
FOUR BIKES IN TOTAL. Riding out of the horizon, closing in on
the couple. They see the bikes coming and panic. Try
desperately to steer the barrow off the road.
The bikes screech to a halt and the FOUR RIDERS dismount.
Brandishing a variety of weapons. The couple make a run for
it but they're quickly chased down and tackled to the ground.
The woman SCREAMS and struggles helplessly as the bikers
swarm over the man like a pack of predatory animals.
The woman is pulled to the ground and the clothes stripped
from her. Eli turns away. He knows what comes next.
Eli listens as the woman screams and screams. He reaches for
his shotgun... hesitates... then withdraws his hand.
ELI
It ain't your concern. Stay on the
path. It ain't your concern. Stay
on the path.
Eli repeats it like a mantra. He clearly wants to intervene,
but will not permit himself to. Instead, he simply sits and
waits grimly as the woman continues to scream for help. And
then finally, suddenly, is silenced.
Down below, the bodies of the man and woman lay dead and
bloodied in the dirt. The bikers tear the tarp from the
wheelbarrow, spilling its contents onto the asphalt.
They ferret through the items, scavenging a few items - we
don't see what - and stuffing them into an old cloth satchel.
They leave the rest strewn in the road and ride off in the
direction they came, dust pluming in their wake.
14.
Eli waits until the sound of the motorcycles has receded into
the far distance before emerging from his hiding place.
Eli crouches on one knee before the murdered couple. He signs
a cross over their ravaged bodies as he mutters a prayer
under his breath. Then stands and continues on down the road.
More desolate wasteland as far as the eye can see. The road
forks again here. Eli arrives at the junction and stops.
The road Eli is on leads further into the west. The other
fork heads toward a SMALL TOWN just visible on the horizon.
A HAND-PAINTED SIGN has been driven into the dirt nearby. No
words, just a series of CRUDE PICTOGRAMS. A BED. A PLATE OF
FOOD. A WATER FAUCET. AN ARROW points toward the town.
Eli pauses, thinking it over. Retrieves the iPod from his
pocket. Clicks the button, but no response. He sighs.
He turns and heads down the other fork, toward town.
A primitive, sprawling village of tents and barn-like
structures. Built from corrugated iron, rotted wood, molded
plastic, tarpaulin - materials scavenged from the old world.
HUDDLED RESIDENTS are dressed in little more than rags, many
wearing goggles like Eli's to shield their eyes from the sun.
Eli stands at the edge of town. Reluctant to enter, but he
braces himself and walks on in. And as he rounds a corner,
entering the center of town, an astonishing sight:
The broad thoroughfare now all that remains of whatever town
once stood here. Many of the old storefronts still largely
intact but patched up with salvaged materials. The asphalt
street warped and cracked, parking meters bent and smashed.
It's a lot like the abandoned town Eli passed through
earlier, except VERY MUCH ALIVE - BUSTLING WITH TOWNSFOLK.
It's at once a familiar and also a disturbing sight - like an
old Norman Rockwell painting of classic small-town America,
but filtered through the devastating eye of an apocalypse. An
unsettling juxtaposition of the old world and the new.
15.
The centerpiece of the town is a GRAND THEATER at the head of
the main street. THE PALLADIUM. Like the rest of the town,
badly damaged and shoddily fixed-up. But still standing.
Eli walks down the street and approaches a BLACKSMITH,
hammering out a metal plate over an anvil outside his store.
ELI
You got an engineer or a fuelman
around here?
The blacksmith doesn't look up from his work but motions
toward a storefront at the far end of the street.
ELI
Thanks.
Eli heads down the street. Stopping when he comes across a
STATUE erected in the center of the road. A TALL MAN crudely
fashioned in clay. One hand placed paternally on the head of
a SMALL CHILD, the other outstretched toward the sun.
As he observes the statue, Eli notices that passing residents
take a moment to PAUSE AND GENUFLECT before it. Worshipping.
Curious, Eli reaches up and runs his hand over the statue's
face. Then hears SHUFFLING FEET behind him and turns as a
PARADE OF EMACIATED MEN AND WOMEN trudges past. Roped
together at the waist, each man leading the one behind.
Heads shaved, thin from malnutrition. And each one BLIND.
They gaze at the ground with pale, dead eyes. They carry
picks, shovels and other tools - a sightless CHAIN GANG.
Eli watches as the pathetic parade shuffles past, herded like
cattle by a brutish CHAIN GANG BOSS who swats at them with a
stick to keep them moving and indicate direction.
CHAIN GANG BOSS
Come on, move it!
The gang boss glares at Eli as he passes by. Eli doesn't
return the look, just continues crossing the street as the
blind are herded away. Headed toward a wooden building with a
pictogram of a LIGHTNING BOLT suspended above the door.
A LARGE CROWD OF TOWNSFOLK - several hundred strong - has
assembled outside the Palladium theater. AN ARMED CREW OF
CARNEGIE'S GOONS keeps watch over the crowd.
Carnegie stands on a BALCONY above the theater marquee. He
treats the balcony like a pulpit, speaking through a
MICROPHONE connected to an old PA SYSTEM that carries his
words to the far reaches of the crowd.
CARNEGIE
I want you all to remember how far
we've come together. And how far we
still can go, if only we believe.
When I brought us here to this
oasis - this promised land - we
knew there would be hardships. Knew
there would be sacrifices. But we
also knew that we were creating for
ourselves a world where we could be
safe from the horrors of the
forsaken lands beyond our borders.
The crowd listens intently, hanging on Carnegie's every word.
He is an incredibly charismatic and persuasive speaker - his
cultivated image and inspiring, confident delivery remind us
of a TELEVISION EVANGELIST.
CARNEGIE
And I want you all to remember
above all that it is not the water
with which we have been blessed
that is the true lifeblood of this
town... but faith.
This sends a MURMUR OF DISCONTENT through the crowd. Many
don't like where they suspect this may be going. Carnegie
senses this and dials up his rhetoric - delivering it now
with the fire-brand passion of an old-time baptist preacher.
CARNEGIE
It is our faith that sustains us,
brothers and sisters! Hallelujah!
21.
The crowd is divided. Many return the "Hallelujah" with
varying levels of conviction. Others are not convinced. But
Carnegie continues unabated, selling it harder than ever.
CARNEGIE
And mark me, the ultimate
validation of that faith is coming!
The sacred Word of Our Lord that
formed the world before and will
reform it once again is coming to
this town to bring it succor, bring
it nourishment, bring it new life!
For the Almighty Himself has spoken
unto me and promised it!
Carnegie is such an impassioned and inspiring speaker it's
almost impossible not to get caught up and swept away by his
words. His apparently unshakable belief is infectious.
CARNEGIE
In the meantime, He has asked us
all to be patient. To walk the hard
road of the faithful just a little
longer. And to do that, we must
give just a little more.
(BEAT)
Water rations will be halved until
further notice.
This sends a much broader ripple of discontent through the
crowd - this news has not been received well at all. Some
still "keep the faith" but many more are perturbed by this.
Carnegie motions for the crowd to settle down.
CARNEGIE
I understand your frustration. The
road to salvation is a difficult
one - but what lies at the end of
that road is a greater glory,
beyond anything you can imagine.
A DISCONTENTED VILLAGER steps forward, pushing through the
crowd and jabbing his finger angrily up at Carnegie.
DISCONTENTED VILLAGER
We've heard this all before! When
are you going to-
Carnegie's goons quickly move in and efficiently SILENCE THE
MAN, removing him from the crowd. Dissent is not tolerated
here. Carnegie goes on speaking as if nothing had happened.
22.
CARNEGIE
I know each and every one of you
will understand the necessity of
this action. It was faith that
built this town - and faith that
will sustain it even through the
dark times that may lie ahead. But
it is always darkest before dawn -
and the new dawn is coming.
(BEAT)
May God go with you all.
Carnegie steps back inside, leaving the crowd to talk among
themselves, clearly mixed about what they have heard.
As the assembled townsfolk disperse, FOUR MOTORCYCLES roar
into town and pull up outside the Palladium.
As the riders dismount, one detaches a CLOTH SATCHEL from his
bike's cargo rack. The four riders head inside. They each
have long, straggly hair and brutish expressions.
We recognize them now as the BIKER BANDITS who killed the
couple on the road under the freeway overpass.
Solara exits via the Palladium's STAGE DOOR and walks across
the busy street to where TWO OF CARNEGIE'S ARMED MEN stand
guard around an ENCLOSURE OF CHAIN-LINK FENCE TOPPED WITH
RAZOR WIRE. TOWNSFOLK wait in line with bowls and buckets.
One of the guards recognizes Solara and lets her cut to the
front of the line. He punches two holes in her ration card
and lets her inside the chain-link enclosure.
Inside is an OLD RUSTED SPIGOT attached to a pipe emerging
from the earth. Solara cranks hard on the handle - it takes a
few pulls before the water comes, and then only at a weak
trickle; it will take a while to fill the canteen.
The pale sun rises over the town. To establish:
56.
Carnegie races from the lobby entrance and looks up at the
open window to Eli's room. He could have easily jumped.
Redridge emerges onto the street behind him.
REDRIDGE
Something wrong, boss?
CARNEGIE
Something wrong? Something wrong?
The walker's gone!
REDRIDGE
That can't be. I had a man outside
his room the whole time.
CARNEGIE
He jumped out the window, you
idiot! You didn't think to put a
man outside the fucking window?
(beat; fuming)
Find him. Now!
REDRIDGE
Boss, he could be anywhere. He...
(REALIZATION)
A battery. Didn't he say something
about a battery?
60.
They turn to face the engineer's storefront - just as ELI
EMERGES ONTO THE STREET, shotgun still in his hand.
EVERYBODY FREEZES. Like a wild west stand-off. Redridge's
fingers play over the butt of the pistol on his hip.
BEAT as time hangs perfectly still for a second... and then
ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE.
Redridge draws and FIRES, SHATTERING A PARKING METER just
inches from Eli and showering quarters all over the sidewalk.
Eli rushes along the sidewalk, RETURNING FIRE. The shot wings
Redridge in the shoulder. He goes down, wounded.
Carnegie dives for cover as FOUR MORE GUNMEN rush from the
theater. Carnegie waves frantically in Eli's direction.
CARNEGIE
Go! Go!
They spot Eli sprinting away and rush off in pursuit.
Carnegie gets to his feet and storms back inside the theater.
LOCAL RESIDENTS scream and rush to and fro in panic as Eli
darts along the boardwalk.
CARNEGIE'S GUNMEN pursue, firing their rifles wildly on the
run. The bullets splinter wood, pierce barrels and crates,
narrowly missing Eli as he dashes, keeping his head down.
Eli aims the shotgun and FIRES without even looking. The shot
HITS A GUNMAN SQUARE IN THE CHEST, dropping him to the dirt.
Eli hits the deck, diving for cover behind a JUNKPILE as more
gunfire ricochets all around him. He takes a moment to
collect himself, reloads the shotgun.
The three remaining gunmen close in on the junkpile warily.
Eli signs a cross over himself with the shotgun, looks to the
sky and offers up a silent prayer. Then emerges from around
the junkpile back into the street. All three gunmen OPEN
FIRE, their bullets whipping past on either side of him.
61.
In one swift motion Eli raises the shotgun and FIRES. Three
shots in quick succession. And then there is silence. Smoke
wisps from the shotgun's sawn-off barrel.
The three gunmen LIE DEAD IN THE STREET. One hit square in
the chest. The other two each have maybe one half of their
heads remaining.
Eli looks around. He's right at the end of the main road, the
perimeter where the town meets the open desert. He's free.
And then, A GIRL'S SCREAM. Distant but unmistakable.
Eli whips around. In the upstairs window of the theater,
Carnegie shoves Solara roughly against the wall. Barking
angrily at her, shaking her.
Eli looks at the road. Then up at the theater. Then back to
the road again.
ELI
(quietly; to himself)
It ain't your concern. Stay on the
path.
But he sounds less resolute now than before. Until today this
was always a simple decision for him to make. But now...
ELI
Dammit...
He marches back toward the theater, stepping over the fallen
bodies of the gunmen, re-loading his shotgun as he goes.
Redridge finally manages to clamber back up to his feet,
wincing as he clutches his painful shoulder wound.
He looks up just in time to see Eli coming right at him.
Without breaking stride, he COLD-COCKS Redridge in the jaw
with the shotgun, sending him back to the deck, out cold.
Eli emerges from the theater, leading Solara onto the street.
RESIDENTS part before them, staring at Eli with astonishment.
Eli passes the statue of Carnegie - and STOPS. Something
about that thing is bothering him.
SOLARA
What? What is it?
ELI
You shall not make for yourself any
graven image...
He turns, drawing his samurai sword and in the same fluid
motion SLICING across the base of the statue.
BEAT. And then the STATUE TOPPLES from the neat cut just
below the knees, CRASHING DOWN to the ground and SHATTERING.
The assembled residents GASP at this defiant display.
64.
Eli sheathes his sword and takes Solara by the hand again.
ELI
Now we can go.
CRANE UP over the main street as they both head out of town.
The town barely visible on the distant horizon behind Eli and
Solara. Eli walks as he always has, his pace steady and slow.
Still, Solara lags along behind. She's already tired.
SOLARA
Where are we going?
ELI
I told you where I'm going. You're
free to go wherever you want.
She stops in the road.
SOLARA
Wait... I'm not coming with you?
ELI
You're only going to slow me down.
Eli doesn't stop walking. Solara is forced to catch up.
SOLARA
So what the hell was all that about
back there?
ELI
The man was hurting you. I don't
like that, so I put a stop to it.
Now you're free. He can't hurt you
any more.
(off her stare)
No need to thank me.
SOLARA
Thank you? For what? What am I
supposed to do now?
ELI
Whatever you want. That's what
being free is.
SOLARA
Whatever I want. Except go with
you.
65.
ELI
I have to get where I'm going. I
can't be worrying about someone
else along the way.
Solara is incredibly hurt by this. Blinks back a tear.
SOLARA
I thought you were my friend.
BEAT. Eli stops and turns back to face her.
ELI
It's dangerous in the outland. I
wouldn't want you to get hurt.
SOLARA
I'll be safe so long as I'm with
you. I know it.
Eli sighs. He's not getting through to her. So now comes the
harsh truth of it:
ELI
You don't want this life. I gotta
do what I gotta do. Don't have no
choice in it. But you do. And I
can't let you choose this. You
don't want to be like me. You don't
want to spend your life alone.
Solara steps closer, her eyes pleading.
SOLARA
If I came with you, I wouldn't be
alone. And neither would you.
A long BEAT as Eli considers this. For a moment it appears as
though Solara might have won him over. But then:
ELI
I'm sorry. Look, maybe it's best
you just go on back to town.
He turns and walks off, leaving her in the road. She stands
there, furious, screaming at his back as he walks away.
SOLARA
Fine! I'll do just that! I had a
life there! A family! I didn't ask
you to save me! I didn't ask you
for anything!
66.
He doesn't turn or acknowledge her at all. Just keeps walking
off into the horizon. Getting smaller all the time.
Solara stands there in the road, weeping. All alone.
SOLARA
(SOFTLY)
Fine.
She turns and walks back in the direction she came.
A small, penned-in area to the rear of the Palladium
containing an eclectic bunch of farmyard animals. Goats,
sheep, geese, pigs. Mostly mangy, sad-looking specimens.
Carnegie stands in the yard, tossing handfuls of animal feed
from a nearby sack onto the ground. He watches with
satisfaction as the animals gather at his feet to feed.
Claudia emerges from the theater with an ice-pack.
CARNEGIE
Thank you, darling.
Carnegie applies it to his jaw, red and swollen from Eli's
pistol-whip. Redridge appears nearby, his arm in a sling.
REDRIDGE
He killed four of my men and walked
out of town without a scratch. They
shot off a hundred rounds at him
and he didn't get hit once. I never
even heard of anything like that.
Carnegie doesn't appear to be listening. He is lost in a
world of his own as he tends to the farm animals.
CARNEGIE
You know, I always thought of
myself as a shepherd. Bringing
together the wayward and the lost.
Tending to my flock. But all the
things I want to do, I can't do
them on my own. The one thing I've
needed is the one thing that's
always been missing. Then one day
it walks right into town - so close
I can almost touch it - and then
walks right on out again.
Carnegie finally looks up from his animals, at Redridge.
67.
CARNEGIE
I want you to put a crew together
and go out after him.
REDRIDGE
He's not going to work for you. I
think he's made that plain.
CARNEGIE
I'm not interested in him any more.
I only want the book he's carrying.
REDRIDGE
If I'm gonna risk my ass hunting
down this maniac in the outland, I
need to know it's gonna be worth
it. I need to know what's so
special about this goddamn book.
BEAT as Carnegie considers this.
CARNEGIE
You have no idea. You're too young,
you don't remember the world
before. But I do. I remember.
He turns back to his animals, summoning up old memories.
CARNEGIE
When I was a kid my parents used to
read that book every goddamn day.
My mother, she'd read it along with
this smooth-talking preacher on the
TV screen. They used to be able to
beam these guys right into your
house, into every house in the
world, through the air. Like magic.
(BEAT)
She worked two jobs and she sent
every spare penny she had to that
fucking guy on the TV. My old man,
he'd read that book, then he'd get
liquored up and kick my ass, tell
me all about the power and the
glory and how I was going to burn
forever in hell for the sins I was
born with. He made sure he beat it
into me good.
He snaps out of his reverie and looks at Redridge.
CARNEGIE
Don't you see? It's not just any
book.
(MORE)
68.
CARNEGIE (cont'd)
It has the power to motivate
people. It can give them hope, it
can terrify them. It can shape
them. Control them.
(BEAT)
Do you remember how I built this
town? It wasn't done with force,
and it wasn't done just with water.
It was done with the power of
words. I created this place out of
nothing, because people believed in
a promise that I sold to them.
Those guys on the TV, they were
richer than you could ever dream,
and it was all built the same way.
With words. With promises. And with
that book.
(BEAT)
That book is a weapon. Aimed right
at the hearts and minds of the weak
and the desperate. Just imagine
what I could do with it.
REDRIDGE
Boss... we're running out of water
and the people are running out of
patience. You're trying to tell me
that a book is going to keep them
in line?
CARNEGIE
Oh, it'll do much more than that.
The water in this town may run dry,
but faith - that springs eternal!
And that faith will help turn this
town into a city. And this city
into a nation. It will help me
build a new world. In my image.
People will come from far and wide
to hear what's inside of it.
They'll follow me anywhere just to
get a taste of it. And they'll do
whatever I tell them.
As usual, Carnegie's slick rhetoric has worked - Redridge has
totally bought into it. Claudia, however, looks appalled.
REDRIDGE
And what if this book don't work?
What if it don't say what you want
it to say?
69.
CARNEGIE
Oh, it'll say what I want, I can
promise you that. Because I'm going
to rewrite it. I'll keep the parts
that work for me and make the rest
whatever I need it to be.
(BEAT)
A new bible, for a new world.
He reaches out and takes Claudia by the hand.
CARNEGIE
What do you think, darling? A whole
new world, to do with as we will.
Won't that be grand?
She smiles halfheartedly, but it's clear she is mortified.
Carnegie turns back to Redridge.
CARNEGIE
Find that book.
REDRIDGE
He has half a day on us already.
CARNEGIE
So use the motor pool.
REDRIDGE
There ain't much gas in reserve.
CARNEGIE
Whatever there is, use it.
Redridge nods and goes to leave.
CLAUDIA
What about Solara?
BEAT. In all this excitement about the book, she had been
completely forgotten about.
CLAUDIA
She's still out there. With him.
CARNEGIE
Right. Right. Of course. Bring her
back, too, if you can. But-
REDRIDGE
The book. I know.
70.
Redridge turns and leaves. Claudia scowls at Carnegie, but he
doesn't even notice, just goes back to feeding his animals.
Solara wanders the road. She's tired. The sun beats down
mercilessly. Nothing but desolation and wasteland all around.
She comes to a FORK IN THE ROAD. Stops at the junction,
unsure. Was this here before? She doesn't remember.
There are no signs. Both paths look the same. Which one is
which? She turns and looks back, looks around. She's lost.
SOLARA
Shit. Shit.
She alternates her finger between the two paths. Eeny-meeny-
miney-moe. Picks a path and follows it, headed down the road.
Eli walks on. Slow and steady. His gaze, as ever, fixed
firmly on the horizon. Takes a swig from his canteen.
Suddenly, he STOPS and stands stock still in the center of
the road. Impossible to know what he's thinking.
He stands there for a long time.
Solara comes upon an abandoned CHEVRON STATION. She doesn't
remember passing this. Looks back up and down the road.
SOLARA
Where the hell am I?
There's a RUSTED CAR parked at one of the pumps. Like every
other car we've seen, stripped of its tires and engine.
She walks around to the driver's side. A PETRIFIED FEMALE
BODY lies on the ground, half-in, half-out of the car.
Solara claps her hand to her mouth and recoils, horrified.
In the dead woman's hand is a dusty bottle of MINERAL WATER.
Solara hesitates. Not wanting to get closer. But so thirsty.
She braces herself, grimacing, and tries to take the bottle,
but the dead woman's hand is closed tight around it. She
pulls harder and wrenches it free. In the process she falls
on her butt and flips the corpse over onto its back.
71.
In the other woman's arm, she has a SKELETAL BABY cradled to
her bosom. It seems to be staring right at Solara.
Solara SCREAMS and frantically shuffles backward away from
it. Gets to her feet and runs across the forecourt.
She stops by the station shop and rests against the wall,
hyperventilating, heart pounding. Trying to get it together.
She inspects the water in the bottle. It looks clean.
Unscrews the cap with shaking hands and takes a sip.
She SPITS IT BACK OUT, coughing. It's rank. Undrinkable.
She runs out across the forecourt, onto the road.
A FEMALE FIGURE is hunched by the side of the road about
fifty yards up ahead. Hard to see what she's doing from here.
SLUMPED FEMALE
Hello? Is anybody there?
Solara starts walking toward her.
The woman has her back to Solara. She's on her knees,
muttering to herself. Gathering objects up from the road.
As Solara moves closer, we see that the woman is struggling
with an UPTURNED SHOPPING CART. Stuck in a roadside ditch,
its contents spilled out next to a few BRACKEN BUSHES.
72.
We see her face now. It's the SAME YOUNG WOMAN from before.
The same shopping cart. The same trap.
SOLARA
Are you all right?
The woman looks around, sees Solara standing nearby. She's
shocked to see that it's a girl.
YOUNG WOMAN
Oh. Yes, I'm fine. Thank you. You
go along, I'll be okay.
SOLARA
You look like you need some help.
YOUNG WOMAN
No, really! I'm fine. Really... I
need a man to help. Not you. You
just keep along. Please.
The woman seems anxious to get rid of her. Tries to indicate
the threat silently with her eyes, but Solara doesn't get it.
SOLARA
It'll just take a minute.
She steps into the ditch and starts to haul the cart out.
YOUNG WOMAN
Really, it's fine! Please!
Too
late. THREE ROAD BRIGANDS POUNCE FROM THE BUSHES. Every
bit
as brutish and horrifying as the group that Eli killed on
the
road in our opening. They grab Solara and drag her from
the
road into the desert, screaming and kicking all the way.
YOUNG WOMAN
Let her go! She ain't got nothing!
The BRIGAND LEADER looks Solara up and down lustfully.
BRIGAND LEADER
I ain't too sure about that.
Solara is reviled by the man. He's filthy, his stench
overpowering. One eye missing, just a dark, empty socket. He
licks his lips, revealing a mouth almost devoid of teeth.
YOUNG WOMAN
This wasn't the deal!
The brigand leader lashes out and grabs her by the throat.
73.
BRIGAND LEADER
Shut your mouth, bitch. You oughta
be grateful you're getting a break.
He releases her. She slumps to the dirt, whimpering.
BRIGAND LEADER
Never did care much for that dried-
up old snatch anyhow.
He looks back to the struggling Solara.
BRIGAND LEADER
This one, though... this one looks
fresh. You a virgin?
She says nothing, just sobs helplessly.
BRIGAND LEADER
Well, let's find out.
He unbuckles his pants, lets them drop to his ankles.
We hear a sound. It's hard to place. Something like a THHUP.
The brigand leader is frozen in shock. His face goes pale,
the blood draining from it. The two bandits holding Solara
look at their leader in dismay. Staring down at his crotch.
A quiet whimper escapes from his lips as he looks down.
There is an ARROW IMBEDDED IN HIS CROTCH. What was once down
there is now just a bloody mess of mangled meat. More blood
streams down his thighs. A real horror show.
He staggers backward, shrieking. Hands shaking. Staring down
at the awful wound from which the long arrow shaft extends.
The two other brigands release Solara and whip around,
scanning the horizon. They see nothing. One of them has a
RIFLE. He unslings it and aims it frantically around.
Then they both see it. Coming right at them. The most
terrifying thing either has ever seen.
ELI, WALKING TOWARD THEM FROM THE ROAD, OUT OF THE SUN. His
silhouette distorted in the rippling heat. An avenging angel.
He pulls another arrow and draws it back as the rifle bandit
trains his weapon on him, finger tightening on the trigger.
Eli SHOOTS. The arrow sails through the air and RIGHT INTO
THE RIFLE BARREL. The feathers at the end of the shaft
plugging the muzzle tight.
74.
Rifle bandit pulls the trigger. The gun EXPLODES, BLOWING HIS
HANDS CLEAN OFF. He falls to the ground, screaming.
Eli only had two arrows. He shoulders the bow and draws his
sword. All the remaining brigand has is a small knife. The
two now square off at arm's length. A hopeless mismatch.
BEAT. The knife brigand hesitates, trembling. And then RUSHES
ELI WITH THE KNIFE. Eli deftly sidesteps, flourishes the
sword. So quick it almost seems like he didn't move at all.
The knife bandit staggers forward a couple more steps. His
hand goes limp and drops the knife.
And then his HEAD FALLS BACKWARD like a Pez dispenser. Almost
completely decapitated, but not quite. Blood fountains from
the neck stump as his body falls to the dirt.
Eli moves to the other two bandits who lay horribly wounded
on the ground, but still breathing. He stands over their
fallen bodies. They stare back up at him, helpless.
He crouches down between them in the dust.
ELI
I offer you both one final chance
in this life to seek forgiveness
for your sins so that your souls
may find salvation. Will you say
with me the act of contrition?
The brigand leader defiantly spits blood at him.
BRIGAND LEADER
Fuck you.
Eli sighs. Stands and looks down on him without pity.
ELI
Some might think it'd be most
fitting to leave you here like
this. Let you die slow in the sun.
But I know better. I know where
you're going. And the sooner you
get there, the sooner you'll get
what's coming to you.
He plunges his sword into the bandit leader, finishing him
off. Pulls the arrow from his crotch and wipes it clean.
He turns to the other man, raising his sword.
RIFLE BANDIT
Wait!
75.
Eli pauses, sword hovering over him, poised to strike.
RIFLE BANDIT
I want to say it. I want to be
forgiven.
Eli crouches once more by his side.
ELI
Repeat after me. Oh God, I am
heartily sorry for having offended
thee, and I detest all my sins.
The bandit follows along with Eli, mouthing the words
quietly. The life ebbing from him with each moment.
ELI
I firmly resolve, with the help of
thy grace, to confess my sins, and
do penance, and to amend my life.
Amen.
RIFLE BANDIT
Amen...
His eyes roll back as his final breath leaves him. Dead. Eli
signs a cross over his body, then stands and walks away.
Solara sits on the ground nearby, a wreck. Eli approaches and
gathers her up in his arms. She clings on to him tightly.
SOLARA
You came back for me.
ELI
What are friends for?
She laughs, a tear rolling down her cheek. Grips him tighter.
He helps her up and escorts her back to the road.
ELI
This is the deal. You keep up. You
pull your weight. You fall behind,
I can't help you. Okay?
SOLARA
Okay.
She looks back at the young woman still slumped in the dirt.
SOLARA
What about her?
76.
ELI
There's nothing can be done for
her.
They walk on down the road.
METAL GARAGE DOORS roll back to reveal darkness within.
A PAIR OF HEADLIGHTS fires up. Full beam right at us.
A VEHICLE roars out of the darkness onto the street. Heavily
modified with plate armor and turret-mounted weapons. But its
original form still recognizable underneath.
It's a HONDA ODYSSEY minivan. Once the #1 choice of soccer
moms, transformed now into an armored personnel carrier.
Another minivan roars from the garage behind it. A DODGE
GRAND CARAVAN, similarly customized and armed to the teeth.
THREE MORE CARS follow. As eclectic an assortment as you
could imagine. A MINI COOPER. FORD EXPLORER. A PRIUS. Each
adorned with plate armor and weapons.
In the lead Minivan is REDRIDGE, heavily armed. He nods to
the DRIVER, who guns the engine.
The fleet of armored vehicles moves out, kicking up a great
funnel of dust in their wake as they roar out of town.
Late afternoon. The sun hangs low on the horizon. We're far
from the road. Nothing but scrub brush and a few PRAIRIE DOG
BURROWS dotted around.
A PRAIRIE DOG pops its head up, scans the horizon. Sniffing
the air, whiskers twitching... and is SKEWERED BY AN ARROW.
Thirty yards away, one of the pieces of scrub brush appears
to COME ALIVE. And then we realize it is Eli's GHILLIE SUIT,
camouflaging both he and Solara beneath it.
Eli casts off the camouflage net and walks toward the dead
prairie dog. Solara just stands there, appalled.
SOLARA
You killed it! That cute little
thing!
Eli picks up the dead animal by the scruff.
77.
ELI
It's good eating, is what it is.
He yanks out the bloody arrow. Solara looks away.
When she turns back, Eli is standing right there, holding the
dead animal in front of her face. She YELPS in surprise and
staggers backward, falling on her butt.
SOLARA
That's not funny.
ELI
If you're going to be on the road,
you can't be picky about what you
eat. You eat what's there to eat.
SOLARA
I'm not eating that.
ELI
(SHRUGS)
More for me.
Eli and Solara sit in the mouth of a desert cave, around a
flickering campfire. The prairie dog roasts on a spit.
Eli digs his knife into the carcass, the blade comes out
clean. It's done. He clasps his hands together and gazes down
penitently at the ground.
ELI
Father, we thank you for your
generosity in providing us with
this meal. Bless this food to our
use and us to thy service, and keep
us ever mindful of the needs of
others. Amen.
Eli carves off a piece of meat. Juicy and succulent. He bites
into it, teasing Solara by making a show of how good it
tastes. He feeds a piece to the rat perched on his shoulder.
Solara tries to appear uninterested, but she's starved.
SOLARA
What does that taste like?
He takes another bite, thinks on this as he chews.
ELI
Tastes like chicken.
78.
She tries to fight the temptation to try it... but she can't.
She reaches out and tears off a piece. Sniffs at it, takes a
small bite... then quickly wolfs down the rest. Eli smiles.
As she eats, she gestures toward Eli's Saint Christopher.
SOLARA
What is that?
Eli reaches up and touches his hand to it.
ELI
It's a Saint Christopher medal.
SOLARA
Who's Saint Christopher? Is he a
character from your book?
Eli smiles and shakes his head.
ELI
Christopher was a man who lived a
long time ago. He wanted to be a
good man, he wanted to help people.
So he would stand by a river that
had no bridge and carry people
across. He was a big strong man and
there was no one he couldn't carry.
Solara listens, rapt. Eli is a good storyteller.
ELI
Then one day a young child came to
the river and asked to be carried
across. Christopher tried to carry
him but he was too heavy. He was
just a small boy but he was heavier
than any man he had ever carried.
The boy explained that he was the
son of God, and that he was so
heavy because he bore all the sins
of the world. After that,
Christopher was able to carry him
across and when they got to the
other side the boy baptized him in
the river. And that's how he became
a saint. Later on, he was known as
the patron saint of travelers.
SOLARA
What is a saint, anyway?
79.
ELI
It's someone who spent their life
doing good things for others.
Enough that God himself took a
special interest in them.
Solara looks at Eli tenderly, with admiration.
SOLARA
Someone like you.
Eli looks away, down at the ground. He appears sad.
ELI
No. Not like me. Saints ain't
killers. And I done too much of
that. Spilled too much blood.
BEAT. No words, just the flickering firelight.
SOLARA
Will you read me some more from the
book?
ELI
It's late. You should get some
sleep. Maybe tomorrow.
LATER - NIGHT
The fire down to its last embers. Eli sleeps next to his
pack, half-hidden in the looming shadows of the cave. His hat
and goggles hung up for the night on the hilt of his sword.
Solara sleeps nearby... then opens her eyes. Not asleep after
all. She looks over at Eli - his face hidden in shadow and so
impossible to tell if he's asleep or awake.
SOLARA
Eli?
No response. Quietly, she moves forward, kneeling by his
side. She opens his coat and checks the pockets. Empty.
She goes deeper, peeling back the layers of clothing,
stealthily frisking him. She finds something on his lapel,
hidden under several layers, that causes her to stop.
It's a RECTANGULAR PLASTIC BADGE. The red, white and blue
colors faded and worn. It reads:
WELCOME TO WAL-MART
MY NAME IS "ELI"
HOW MAY I HELP YOU?
80.
She stares at it for a moment, not knowing what to make of
it. Then moves on, continuing to pat him down.
Whatever she's looking for is not here. She turns her
attention to the backpack. Slowly, carefully, opens it up.
There it is. THE BIBLE, wrapped carefully in its neat little
package of cloth and twine. She reaches in for it.
Suddenly, ELI'S HAND SHOOTS OUT AND GRABS HER BY THE WRIST.
She cries out, startled. Eli sits up, his face just a dark
shape in the shadows. For the first time he appears a little
scary to Solara.
ELI
What are you doing?
SOLARA
You scared me! I thought you were
asleep.
ELI
On the road you sleep with one eye
open. I asked you what you were
doing.
SOLARA
I just wanted to see the book.
ELI
You want to see the book, you ask
me. Nobody touches it but me. Ever.
Until it gets where it's going. Do
you understand?
He's very forceful. She nods, a little afraid of him.
ELI
Tell me you understand!
He grips her wrist tighter.
SOLARA
Okay! I understand! Ow!
Eli releases her wrist. Takes the pack from her and closes it
up. Pulls it closer to him and lies back down.
ELI
It's no use to you anyway. You
don't know how to read it.
81.
SOLARA
Well... now we have the time, maybe
you can teach me.
ELI
Maybe. Get some sleep.
She lies back down beside him, but doesn't close her eyes.
She just lies there, watching him.
The sun rises out of the east. And out of the sun comes the
FLEET OF ARMORED VEHICLES. Racing side-by-side down the road.
The lead vehicle comes to a halt. A door opens and Redridge
gets out. MORE ARMED MEN emerge from the other vehicles and
follow him as he marches into the wasteland by the roadside.
The DEAD BRIGANDS are splayed out in the dirt where Eli slew
them. A FLOCK OF BUZZARDS is picking their bones clean.
REDRIDGE
He's been here.
Redridge looks at the footprints in the dirt headed from the
bodies and back onto the road. Two sets of tracks.
REDRIDGE
The girl's with him.
He moves back to the cars.
REDRIDGE
Move out!
The other men hold for a moment, still looking at the half-
eaten bodies in the dirt. Redridge turns back.
REDRIDGE
I said move out!
CARNEGIE GUNMAN
I heard this guy's protected
somehow, some... power from up
above. That there ain't nothing on
this earth can touch him.
REDRIDGE
He's just a man. You put a bullet
in him, he'll go down like any
other. I don't want to hear no more
of this superstitious horseshit!
82.
Hesitantly, they make their way back to the vehicles. The
cars gun their engines and move on down the road, past the
abandoned Chevron station. Dust pluming in their wake.
Eli and Solara walk together, passing by a few burned-out
buildings. It appears we might be headed toward a town.
Solara looks up at the sweltering sun. Then around at her
surroundings. Nothing but devastation and decay.
SOLARA
You say you've been walking for
twenty-five years. Have you ever
considered that you might be lost?
ELI
No.
SOLARA
But how can you know? How can you
know this is the right way?
ELI
I told you. My path has been laid
out before me.
SOLARA
Yeah, but laid out by who?
ELI
By Almighty God.
SOLARA
Well if this God guy's so mighty,
how come it's taking you so long to
get where you're going? Doesn't he
know the way?
Eli wheels around and jabs a scolding finger at her.
ELI
You want to stay on this road with
me, don't ever let me hear you take
his name in vain like that again.
Solara is surprised by the severity of his reaction.
SOLARA
Sorry.
Eli resumes walking.
83.
ELI
God has a reason for everything
being the way it is. It's not
always apparent to us. But it is
his plan nonetheless.
SOLARA
So, is he talking to you right now?
Telling you where to go?
ELI
It's not like that. It's kinda hard
to explain. I'm guided by faith.
SOLARA
I don't know what that word means.
BEAT as Eli thinks on how to explain it.
ELI
It means you know something even
though you don't know it.
Solara thinks about this, shakes her head.
SOLARA
That doesn't make any sense at all.
ELI
It doesn't have to.
They walk on.
On the outskirts of a small town that lies in ruins. Almost
every building burned or reduced to rubble.
Except for one SMALL HOUSE. The building is damaged and worn
but in mostly decent condition. It stands out among its
surroundings for being the only structure still intact.
The windows are BARRED. The outer structure fortified with
SHEET METAL and other custom patch-ups. The whole plot
surrounded by a CHAIN-LINK FENCE TOPPED WITH RAZOR WIRE.
Eli and Solara crouch behind a pile of rubble nearby.
SOLARA
I don't get it. It looks almost...
normal. Like nothing ever happened.
How can it still be out here?
84.
ELI
I don't know.
SOLARA
Maybe we should look inside. There
might be food.
BEAT as Eli considers. Then stands and unhooks his shotgun.
ELI
Stay behind me.
They approach the house cautiously. Arrive at the perimeter
fence. There's a gate held in place by a PADLOCK.
Eli pulls a pair of BOLT-CUTTERS from his belt and snips the
padlock free. Swings open the gate with a metallic SQUEAK.
They move inside, up the garden path. Though the soil in the
yard is dead, it's been carefully raked and tended. WEEDS
arranged in thoughtful patterns, like real flowers.
SOLARA
This is weird.
ELI
Yeah.
Eli steps forward, his foot planting on a CRACKED PAVING
STONE that shifts almost imperceptibly under his feet.
Accompanied by a barely audible SOUND. He looks down.
ELI
Shit.
SOLARA
What?
A ROPE NOOSE suddenly whips around their feet, tightening at
their ankles and YANKING THEM UPSIDE-DOWN INTO THE AIR. Eli
drops his shotgun to the ground.
They hang there for a moment, twisting in the breeze.
The front door to the house SWINGS OPEN to reveal...
AN ELDERLY COUPLE. The woman's gray hair tied into a neat
bun. The man bald, squinting through wire-frame glasses. They
look like the couple from Grant Wood's "American Gothic."
Instead of a pitchfork the man holds a 12-GAUGE RIOT SHOTGUN
which he keeps trained from the hip on Eli and Solara.
85.
They step outside, regarding their new visitors carefully.
The man seems more suspicious than his wife. He drags Eli's
shotgun toward him with his foot, hands it to his wife.
ELDERLY MAN
Who are you?
ELI
My name is Eli. This is Solara.
We're travelers, that's all. We
don't mean you any harm.
ELDERLY MAN
You cut my padlock. I saw you.
Trying to break into our house.
ELI
I'm sorry. We didn't think anybody
lived here. We thought it was
abandoned, like all the rest.
This seems to annoy the man.
ELDERLY MAN
Take a look around you. Look at
this yard. Does it look abandoned
to you?
Clearly he's proud of the work he's done with the pitiful
means at his disposal.
ELI
No, sir. I... like what you've done
with the place.
ELDERLY MAN
What's your business here?
ELI
No business. We're sorry to have
troubled you. If you'll let us down
we'll happily be on our way.
The wife steps forward, she's much warmer, less guarded.
ELDERLY WOMAN
George, look at them! They're not
robbers or road agents! One of
them's just a girl!
ELDERLY MAN
Seen that before. Oldest trick in
the book.
86.
ELDERLY WOMAN
Oh, stop! It's no trick. Let them
down!
The woman glares at him. The husband reluctantly accedes and
moves to the concealed trap apparatus. Releases the rope,
dropping Eli and Solara to the ground in a heap.
The old woman helps them to their feet. They shake off the
noose from their ankles.
ELDERLY WOMAN
I'm so sorry about my husband. We
so rarely get visitors these days,
he's suspicious of everybody.
(BEAT)
I'm Martha and this is my husband
George. Would you care for some
tea?
Eli and Solara exchange a look. What the hell is this?
Eli and Solara stand in the doorway, looking out on the yard.
Solara is horrified by what she sees.
88.
The entire back yard is a GRAVEYARD. Maybe twenty human
graves dug shallow into the earth. Some were dug long ago,
others look like they're very recent.
SOLARA
Are these... graves?
MARTHA
Of course. It would be uncivilized
not to bury them. We're not
barbarians.
GEORGE
Plus, it's good for the soil.
MARTHA
Come on back inside. I think I
might be able to rustle up some
sandwiches.
George and Martha go back inside, leaving Eli and Solara
gazing at the little graveyard.
ELI
We have to get out of here.
SOLARA
They look so sweet... I would never
have believed they were killers.
ELI
They're worse than that.
SOLARA
What?
ELI
They didn't just kill these people.
(BEAT)
They ate them.
Solara is stunned.
SOLARA
They what?
ELI
There's a disease in the outland.
Spread by eating human meat. It
affects the brain. Dementia, loss
of motor function. Did you notice
the old woman's hands shaking?
She's got it. They've both got it.
89.
SOLARA
Oh my God...
Eli and Solara emerge into the sunlight. Walk down the garden
path. And FREEZE IN THEIR TRACKS.
THE ARMED VEHICLES ARE COMING. Driving toward them out of the
horizon in a hazy cloud of dust.
SOLARA
Oh no... it's my dad. It's his men.
90.
ELI
Are you sure?
SOLARA
I recognize the cars.
ELI
Back inside.
Eli bundles Solara back into the house. George stands in the
doorway, squinting at the approaching convoy.
Redridge steps forward, raises a BULLHORN.
REDRIDGE
We know you're in there! Come on
out with your hands up and your
weapons on the deck and nobody
needs to get hurt.
SILENCE. No sign of activity inside the house.
Redridge turns back to his men. Their hands trembling. They
didn't sign up for this, and they're not ready for it.
92.
Redridge turns back to the house. Into the bullhorn:
REDRIDGE
All right, look. I'm gonna make it
easy on y'all. Bring out the girl
with the book.
Redridge waits. Still no sign of a response. His nervous
gunmen exchange worried looks.
CARNEGIE GUNMAN #2
They ain't comin' out. They-
Redridge raises his hand to silence him. Looks up as an
UPSTAIRS WINDOW slides open.
A CLOTH PACKAGE is tossed from the window. It lands in the
dirt outside the perimeter fence a few yards from Redridge.
Cautiously, he approaches. The package is wrapped in cloth
and tied up with twine. It looks like Eli's bible.
He picks it up and tugs at the twine, untying it. Folds away
the cloth wrapping. Looks for a moment in puzzlement at the
object, at the words written on the front of it.
THIS SIDE TO FACE ENEMY
It's a MINIATURE CLAYMORE MINE. The small red light on top of
the unit ILLUMINATES WITH A BEEP. Armed.
REDRIDGE
Holy shi...
93.
He drops the package in the dirt and races for his life back
toward the vehicles.
REDRIDGE
Get down! Everybody get down!
He dives across the trunk of the Explorer into cover as THE
MINE EXPLODES, SHATTERING EVERY WINDOW OF EVERY VEHICLE. The
lightweight Mini Cooper takes the main brunt and EXPLODES,
cartwheeling through the air, a burning wreck.
Redridge looks around. Three men lie dead already. Flaming
wreckage all around him. Suddenly, it's a war zone.
MACHINE-GUN FIRE ERUPTS FROM THE HOUSE, peppering the
vehicles' armor. The gunmen cower behind cover.
REDRIDGE
Damn you, return fire!
Redridge aims at the house and OPENS FIRE. Inspired by his
example, the others follow. A HAIL OF BULLETS CRISS-CROSS
BACK AND FORTH. The house's faded paint facade is shredded.
Redridge's men continue the hail of gunfire. Six of them dead
now, six more still standing. No lessening of fire from
inside the house. They're losing.
Redridge races between the vehicles, ducking from gunfire
until he makes it to the back of the Dodge Caravan. Pops the
trunk and pulls out a ROCKET-PROPELLED GRENADE LAUNCHER.
He sets it on his shoulder, rests on the trunk to steady his
aim. And FIRES. The rocket screams toward its target, tearing
through the chain fence and TEARING AN ENTIRE CORNER FROM THE
HOUSE in a fiery explosion.
Redridge moves between the cars again, staying behind cover.
George's hail of gunfire has them pinned down.
REDRIDGE
We got any more of those RPGs?
CARNEGIE GUNMAN #3
That was it.
REDRIDGE
Screw this.
Redridge jumps into the driver's seat of the minivan, turns
the key in the ignition. Jams the accelerator down with the
butt of his rifle, then shifts the transmission into DRIVE.
REDRIDGE
Get clear!
The gunmen leap clear as the minivan HURTLES TOWARD THE
HOUSE, engine roaring. CRASHES THROUGH THE CHAIN FENCE.
Eli and Solara are shoved out of the house at gunpoint and
marched past the torn perimeter fence to the vehicles.
Eli has been stripped of his weapons and backpack. Redridge
faces him and points a pistol at his head.
REDRIDGE
Where's the book?
BEAT. Eli doesn't answer. Redridge cocks the pistol.
REDRIDGE
I ain't playing.
Redridge stares him down. Eli just stares right back. Totally
unflappable. Redridge motions to his men.
REDRIDGE
Check the pack.
The gunman carrying Eli's pack opens it up and tips its
contents out onto the ground. The ghillie suit, battery, some
old canned goods, other odds and ends. No sign of the book.
CARNEGIE GUNMAN #4
It ain't here.
97.
REDRIDGE
It's gotta be.
Redridge holsters his gun and frisks Eli, going through his
pockets. Finds nothing. He opens Eli's coat and checks the
inside pockets. Digs around deep inside.
REDRIDGE
Hello, what have we here?
And then suddenly he SHRIEKS IN PAIN. Yanks his hand out to
reveal ELI'S RAT, TEETH SUNK DEEP INTO HIS FLESH.
Redridge flails around violently, trying to get the rat off
him, but it won't let go. His hand is bleeding badly.
REDRIDGE
Fuck! Get it off! Get it off me!
He finally manages to shake it free. It hits the floor dazed.
Redridge STOMPS ON IT with his boot, reducing it to a bloody
smear in the dirt. Eli lowers his head in sadness.
Redridge clutches his bloody hand, glares at Eli furiously.
Pulls his gun again and marches right up to him, pressing the
muzzle tight against his forehead.
REDRIDGE
If you don't got the book, what
fucking use are you?
His finger tightens on the trigger.
SOLARA
Wait!
She breaks from the gunmen holding her and rushes toward
Redridge. Reaches inside her dress and PRODUCES THE BIBLE.
SOLARA
It's here! I've got it! Please
don't kill him.
ELI
Solara...
SOLARA
It's just a book, Eli. No book is
worth giving up your life for.
ELI
You're wrong.
98.
Satisfied, Redridge takes the book. Runs his hand over the
leather cover, gazes admiringly at the gold-embossed cross.
REDRIDGE
You did good, sweetheart. Your
daddy would be proud. He knew you'd
come through for him.
Solara looks at Eli guiltily. She feels terrible.
SOLARA
He said he would hurt my mom. If I
didn't help him.
REDRIDGE
(SMILING)
Daddy's little girl...
Solara stands between him and Eli. Deadly serious now.
SOLARA
I want you to let him go.
REDRIDGE
What?
SOLARA
You've got what you came for. You
don't need him. Let him go.
REDRIDGE
He's killed a dozen of my men.
SOLARA
If you hurt him, I'm not coming
back with you. You'll have to drag
me kicking and screaming.
Solara glares at Redridge. He sighs. He can tell she means
it. It's not worth the aggravation. He turns back to Eli.
REDRIDGE
Take your shit and get out of here.
Eli gathers up his stuff into his pack. Shoulders it and goes
to pick up his sword, but Redridge puts his boot on it.
REDRIDGE
No weapons.
Eli still has a half-dozen guns trained on him. He turns and
walks away, toward the road. As he passes Solara:
99.
ELI
I told you we'd both live. Now do
you have faith?
A tear runs down Solara's cheek as she watches him walk away.
Redridge grabs her by the arm and pulls her toward the
vehicles as his men load up and prepare to move out.
IN THE REARMOST VEHICLE
Solara sits in the back seat, staring out the rear window as
it drives down the road at the tail end of the convoy.
She watches as Eli moves away down the road, getting smaller
and smaller until he is just a speck on the horizon.
She bursts into floods of uncontrollable tears.
LATER
Solara in the back seat, calmer now. The tears dried on her
cheeks. She sits staring blankly at the DRIVER in front.
And then she LUNGES VIOLENTLY FORWARD. Clawing and biting at
the driver, who struggles to fight her off. His hands come
off the wheel and the car FISHTAILS WILDLY.
REDRIDGE'S VEHICLE
The DRIVER sees something odd in the rear-view mirror.
DRIVER
What the hell...?
Redridge turns to see the car behind VEERING ERRATICALLY then
SLAMMING ON THE BRAKES, stopping in the middle of the road.
REDRIDGE
Stop, stop!
The car screeches to a halt. Redridge watches through the
rear window as the driver's side door opens and the driver is
KICKED OUT ONTO THE ASPHALT.
The door closes again, the engine revs and the car TURNS
AROUND, racing back down the road in the direction it came.
REDRIDGE
Shit. Turn around!
DRIVER
We ain't got the gas for it!
100.
REDRIDGE
She's getting away!
DRIVER
We got the book! And we got barely
enough gas to make it back as it
is! We can't go chasin' her!
BEAT. Redridge knows he's right.
REDRIDGE
Stupid little bitch...
(BEAT)
Drive on.
The car moves on, following the rest of the convoy.
Solara screeches the car to a halt outside the smoking
wreckage of the besieged house. She runs from the vehicle to
where ELI'S SWORD lies in the dirt and grabs it up.
Solara races down the road in the car, pedal to the metal.
SOLARA
Come on, come on...
Eventually, she sees him. At first just a dot on the horizon.
But unmistakably Eli. By now, she'd know him anywhere.
Suddenly the engine SPLUTTERS. She checks the fuel gauge; the
needle deep in the red. She pounds the wheel in frustration.
SOLARA
No... No!
The car grinds to a halt, dead. She flings open the door and
leaps out of the vehicle, rushing after Eli on foot.
ON ELI. As always, his pace steady and slow. The sun directly
ahead of him as it sets on the horizon. Headed always west.
Solara is running up behind him, a hundred yards back.
SOLARA
Eli! Eli!
He doesn't stop or look back. Just keeps on walking.
She finally catches up with him, breathing hard, exhausted.
101.
SOLARA
Eli...
ELI
Thought you'd gone back to town.
SOLARA
I can't go back there. Eli, I'm so
sorry.
ELI
For what?
SOLARA
For what? I betrayed you! I gave
them the book!
ELI
You did what you believed you had
to.
SOLARA
You're not mad at me?
BEAT.
ELI
I forgive you.
She continues walking alongside him. Trying to process this.
This kind of compassion is totally foreign to her.
She holds out the sword, offering it to Eli by way of
atonement.
SOLARA
Here. I thought you might still
need this.
Eli seems appreciative that she would think to return it to
him. He takes it and slings it over his shoulder.
ELI
Thank you.
SOLARA
What are you going to do now?
ELI
Same as always. Keep heading west.
SOLARA
Why? I mean, you don't have the
book any more.
102.
ELI
But I still have my faith.
They walk on together, into the sunset.
Eli and Solara follow the road through burned-out towns and
retail neighborhoods. Gutted and dead, like every place else.
But something is different here. Things are greener. Tufts of
grass here and there. They attract Solara's attention.
SOLARA
What's that?
Eli reaches down and runs his hand through the grass.
ELI
It's grass. It used to grow all
over the place.
SOLARA
How come it's here?
ELI
I don't know. Less poison in the
air this near to the ocean, maybe.
They keep walking. Eli groans, clutches his side. Does his
best to hide his pain from Solara. She notices anyway.
SOLARA
What's wrong?
ELI
Nothing. Just a cramp.
They walk on through the night. Eli stops and sniffs the air.
SOLARA
What?
ELI
Do you smell that?
SOLARA
Smell what?
ELI
Salt in the air. We're close to the
ocean. We're almost there.
103.
They keep on along the road. A shallow uphill incline. They
follow it uphill, finally reaching its crest, where they stop
and take in the view before them.
THE PACIFIC OCEAN. Straddled by the GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - the
once-great structure has partially collapsed from decades of
neglect and disrepair. The span sags and hangs low over the
ocean, the asphalt cracked and ruptured.
On the other side of the bay, SAN FRANCISCO - or the little
that remains of it. The city has been almost TOTALLY
DESTROYED - entire areas reduced to rubble, the few buildings
still standing looking on the verge of collapse.
Solara looks at it all in horrified awe. Eli, unperturbed,
keeps on moving, still clutching his side.
ELI
Come on.
Eli and Solara make their way south across the bridge, side-
stepping the fractures in the road.
Eli leads Solara through the rubble of what used to be San
Francisco. It's like walking through the wreckage of 9/11's
Ground Zero, but a hundred times the scale. Horrifying.
They pass by the wreckage of a HOTEL, nothing but the lobby
still standing. A HILTON sign protruding from the rubble.
Eli uses his sheathed sword as a walking stick, poking around
ahead of him for loose rubble underfoot. He steps carefully.
ELI
Watch your footing. Step where I
step.
More buildings are still standing here, but they're nothing
more than great dead monoliths. Solara looks up at the
blasted skyscrapers - she's never seen anything like it.
The buildings loom over her like giant tombstones. It scares
her - like walking through the graveyard of a dead world.
SOLARA
This... this is the world before?
104.
ELI
What's left of it.
They keep walking, passing the TOPPLED TRANSAMERICA PYRAMID.
Once a bustling oceanside tourist spot, now a ghost town.
Eli and Solara walk along the litter-strewn street, passing
the old RIPLEY'S BELIEVE-IT-OR-NOT and WAX MUSEUMS. The
celebrity mannequins are still in fair condition, but slumped
at their feet are CHARRED HUMAN SKELETONS.
Eli is struggling now. He looks pale from the blood loss. His
breathing labored. Solara takes him by the arm to help him.
A dead, ruined place, like everywhere else. We hear the sound
of SEAGULLS nearby - the only sign of life at all.
Eli and Solara walk along the pier, until they reach its end.
The original end has long since collapsed into the sea, but a
RICKETY HAND-MADE ROPE BRIDGE has been affixed to the pier's
sheared-off edge.
Eli and Solara stand at the pier's end, looking out to sea.
ELI
Do you see that?
SOLARA
I see it. Is that it?
ELI
That's it.
Reveal now that the rope-bridge leads out across the bay to:
ALCATRAZ ISLAND
Looking much the same as it always has, old and dilapidated.
The coastal fog shrouding it gives it an ethereal look. It
feels almost like a mythic place - the "promised land" Eli
has sought for so many years.
A tattered STARS AND STRIPES still flutters in the breeze
atop the prison lighthouse.
105.
Eli and Solara make their way carefully across the bridge. It
feels highly unstable and sags low over the bay, the waters
below close enough to lap around their ankles.
Eli and Solara arrive at the prison gates. Securely locked.
As they inspect it for a possible way to enter:
VOICE (O.S.)
Who goes there?
They look up. A GUARD in paramilitary fatigues is stationed
in one of the perimeter towers. Training a rifle on them.
ALCATRAZ GUARD
Identify yourselves!
In the opposite tower ANOTHER GUARD has his rifle trained on
them too. Eli looks up, raises his hands.
ELI
My name is Elijah Stone. I have a
message for your boss. I need you
to tell him that I have a King
James Bible in my possession.
BEAT.
ALCATRAZ GUARD
Remain where you are! Do not
attempt to move or you will be
fired upon!
Keeping the gun trained on them, the tower guard uses his
free hand to talk into a WALKIE-TALKIE RADIO. We don't hear
the conversation. All Eli and Solara can do is wait.
The guard puts away his radio and shouts back down:
ALCATRAZ GUARD
Be prepared to surrender any
weapons at the gate!
BEAT. And then the massive front gates SLOWLY OPEN ON
MECHANICAL RUNNERS with the low groan of rusted iron.
Eli and Solara look at each other, then step gingerly inside.
106.
Redridge's remaining vehicles drive back into town and come
to a halt outside the theater. Redridge emerges from his car,
carrying the bible. Walks up to the Palladium and enters.
The prison yard shrouded in the dim light just before dawn.
Solara crosses the yard. She looks more mature somehow.
Determined and strong. She carries with her ELI'S SWORD - and
something else, tucked under her arm.
ELI (V.O.)
Thank you for your protection and
for your many signs along the way.
She stops in a nondescript corner of the yard.
At her feet is a SHALLOW MOUND OF DIRT. At the head of the
mound, a SIMPLE TOMBSTONE.
She kneels and places a SINGLE FLOWER on the grave.
As Solara kneels by the grave, we see now that she wears
Eli's SAINT CHRISTOPHER PENDANT around her neck.
The tombstone reads:
113.
HERE LIES ELIJAH STONE
DIED AUGUST 21, 2048
FAITHFUL SERVANT TO THE LORD
AND FRIEND TO SOLARA
She unsheathes Eli's sword, plants it in the ground before
his grave. Takes the BOOK from under her arm and opens it up.
It's a NEW BIBLE. Crudely typeset from Lombardi's original
transcription and printed on the prison press.
She opens it up and begins to read a passage from the bible
over Eli's grave. We don't hear what she says.
As Solara finishes her reading and closes the bible, LOMBARDI
appears behind her.
LOMBARDI
You know, you don't have to leave.
You're welcome to stay here with
us. You'll be safe.
SOLARA
Thanks.
She stands, pulling Eli's sword from the earth.
SOLARA
But I gotta do what I gotta do.
LOMBARDI
Where will you go?
BEAT. Solara looks at the sword, her fingers playing across
its hilt. The blade glimmers in the light of the rising sun.
There is a determined, purposeful look in her eye.
SOLARA
Home.
The sun rises through the fog on the horizon.
The great iron gates grind open. Solara emerges from inside
the prison, steps out onto the island rock.
She is dressed in a flak jacket, combat pants and boots.
Eli's old pack across her back. Hair tied in a neat pony
tail. Atop that, Eli's ragged fur hat.
ELI (V.O.)
Thank you for the friend I made.
114.
In her hand she clutches a copy of the newly-printed bible.
Eli's sword slung over her shoulder.
ELI (V.O.)
Please watch over her as you
watched over me.
MONTAGE as Solara walks back along Fisherman's Wharf...
through the San Francisco rubble... across the Golden Gate
bridge...
ELI (V.O.)
Thank you for allowing me finally
to rest. I'm so very tired. The
time of my departure is at hand and
now I surrender my soul into your
care, at peace in knowing that I
have carried out your will. That I
have done right with my time on
this earth.
...and finally back onto a desolate road leading off into the
desert wasteland. She looks up and down the road, then turns
and heads toward the sun on the horizon. Headed east.
ELI (V.O.)
I have fought the good fight. I
have finished the race.
As she walks away into the sun, her lonely silhouette on the
road reminds us of Eli as we saw him so many times before.
ELI (V.O.)
I have kept the faith.
She grows smaller and smaller as she walks into the distance,
until she consumed by the rising sun and we
FADE OUT:
Book of Eli, The
Writers : Gary Whitta
Genres : ActionAdventureDramaSci-FiThrillerWestern
User Comments
Back to IMSDb