Harry traverses (aided by an umbrella?) the pedestrian crossing. When
he reaches the opposite sidewalk, the credits appear on the black and
white stripes that mark the crossing. The crossway is clear of
pedestrians so that only cars pass through (not many) and as they do,
7
they run over the letters of the credits, making them disappear, in
pieces. On a different stripe, a new title appears and as it does, it
is run over and destroyed by another car. Like this, successively.
Just on the sidewalk across from where Harry lives, there is a news-
stand, and next to it, perhaps on the nearest corner, a bar.
Harry buys the newspaper at the news-stand. This is part of his daily
routine. He greets the attendant familiarly. He has the kind of face
that provokes pity. He grabs the newspaper, folds it, and places it
under his arm.
Cut to.
They make it through the crosswalk. She is not holding his arm (but
almost), Harry doesn't need it. He knows the surroundings well.
They reach the other sidewalk.
Harry thanks her for her help, the Girl observes him the entire time,
intrigued and curious.
HARRY
I live nearby, two blocks up, would you mind coming along
with me?
The Girl accepts, delighted. Tall, thin, attractive, modern, and
inexpressive like a model, this is what the Girl is like.
Once at the entrance, Harry invites her to come up so that she can
read aloud the newspaper to him. The Girl checks her watch, and ends
up accepting.
GIRL
10
But I warn you, I've never read out-loud, you may not
like it!
HARRY
You will only have to browse.
She observes how, on the sidewalk across the way, the Girl enters the
main door of the building just next to the news-stand where Harry buys
his newspaper. From the window she can make out that it's an
important Modeling Agency.
RETURN TO SEQ. 12
Judit is still looking out the window, her back to Harry, when she
hears him say:
HARRY
Ernesto Martel has died.
Judit turns to Harry, surprised but masking it with her voice.
JUDIT
I think he was very ill...
HARRY
It's been so long since we've spoken of him!
Judit nods plainly with her head. Silence. Ernesto Martel's death
doesn't bring good memories to either of them.
16
23
A modern building in the financial district. A sign displays the name
of an important financial company (M. Capital) and the year when the
action takes place, 1990.
DAY. 1990
27
It's a hot and sunny afternoon at the end of July. Lena arrives
inside a taxi to the entrance of Puerta de Hierro Hospital. On the
sidewalk, next to the entryway, her mother awaits, (chubby, tired,
defenseless and impatient, she's around sixty) next to her, a suitcase
and a huge plastic bag full of clothes. The mother is a small-town
woman, dignified and beaten. The shock provoked by the situation has
liberated her, if only momentarily, from falling into desperation.
Through the car's window, Lena can see her mother on the sidewalk, and
her ailing Father (a man in his sixties, very debilitated and aged),
sitting on a sofa in the foyer.
Lena tells the cab-driver to wait, and runs toward her mother. They
kiss.
LENA
I can't believe they have thrown you out of the
hospital, like dogs...
MOTHER
(Humiliated, hurt) Yes, honey, yes...
LENA
(Indignant) Does Dr. Alvaro de la Torre know this?
The mother gestures for them to get away from the door, that way the
Father cannot see them.
MOTHER
He's been the one...
LENA
But how? If he was going to operate him this week,
and last week, and the other week...
MOTHER
28
I couldn't explain on the phone. (She recounts) Dr.
De la Torre called us for an appointment. I though it
would be to tells us that they were finally going to
operate on your father... but instead he tells us they
are releasing him. (In disbelief) I asked him what
he meant and he replied: "quite simple, it's July and
I am leaving for my vacation" (as her story moves
forward the mother relives the same states of mind
that she went through in her conversation with the
doctor) And I told him, "you are throwing us out onto
the street?" and he insisted, without the least bit
of compassion, "I am releasing him so that you can go
home", but "what can I do with him at home in his
condition?". "That's your problem" he told me (she
cries), "do whatever you like, I am leaving on
vacation". "He is dying!" I begged. "Well, let him
die in peace, at home", he said to me.
LENA
(Powerless, furious) It cannot be! They can't keep
him for twenty days, torturing him with tests in
preparation for an operation and now leave him like
this, just because the doctor is leaving on vacation!
The Mother looks at her without knowing what to say. She takes a
small handkerchief to her nose.
LENA
Have you protested?...
MOTHER
To who? Dr. De la Torre is the head surgeon. There
is no one over him.
29
Lena refuses to accept the situation.
The father appears through the doors of the hospital entrance,
exhausted. He leans down to catch his breath. With a weak voice,
almost inaudible, he says to them:
FATHER
Did you forget about me?
Lena and the mother approach him, almost jubilant, hiding their sense
of helplessness and frustration.
LENA
(Her eyes welled up with tears, she gathers her last
bit of strength) How could you think that Dad!
Between the two women they help the father to the taxi that is waiting
for them nearby. They put him in the car. The man can hardly walk.
He is very thin, his bones jut out from under his ashen skin. He
walks crouched over.
The taxi pulls off.
23. PERIPHERAL HIGHWAY, MADRID. INSIDE THE TAXI. HIGHWAY. DAY.
FATHER
You know what Dr. De la Torre told me before he broke
the news?
He falters. He is too exhausted to speak.
30
FATHER
(To the Mother) You tell her, Paca.
MOTHER
He said: I am glad you are not still in the service,
Emilio.
LENA
(Not understanding)Why?
MOTHER
"Because if you were still in the service, after what
I am going to tell you, you'd shoot me..."
Lena stares, completely wide-eyed with amazement.
LENA
He really said that?
FATHER
Yes... and he was smiling, he thought it was funny...
The taxi parks in front of a humble building, in one of those outlying
neighborhoods in the periphery of Madrid, a commuter town. Children,
women, street ambience. It's like a provincial town, transported to a
huge city that is in the midst of merciless development. At that hour
there are few people on the street.
The passage between this sequence and the next happens through the
doors of the car and the apartment, respectively.
The Father exits, aided by Lena and the Mother, when the door to the
taxi closes it's the door to the apartment that shuts, with all three
characters inside the entry hall.
31
NIGHT.
The taxi stops in front of the building where Lena lives. She exits
the taxi and opens the door.
26. LENA'S HOME. (NEIGHBORHOOD: PROSPERIDAD, VALLEGAS OR LA
39
An ambulance traverses Madrid at full speed.
1990
It arrives to the Emergency ward at the Clinica de la Luz. They carry
Lena's father in a stretcher, her mother alongside him.
A public park. Diego and Harry are walking along a straight pathway.
Kids, dogs, people jogging. It is a tranquil and pleasant place.
Diego is in front, Harry is behind him, holding on to his elbow, (as
reference), but it's Harry who is moving faster, pushing Diego from
his elbow. The boy shows signs of exhaustion, he is wearing black
sunglasses.
DIEGO
Don't go so fast!
HARRY
62
We are exercising...
DIEGO
I'm not. I'm just keeping you company. How can you
walk so fast?
HARRY
I am training and I don't work at night, nor do I drug
myself.
DIEGO
(On guard) What do you mean by that?
HARRY
That I take care of myself, with the fanaticism of an
older, handicapped person.
DIEGO
You are no fanatic.
HARRY
Yes, I am. All of us who survive a critical physical
injury are. There is no other way.
Cut to.
They exit the park. While they wait at a stop sign, a billboard
catches Diego's attention. Half of the billboard is taken up by the
motto: DONATE BLOOD. The names of participating ambulatory hospitals
and their hours appear below.
Harry can tell his company is distracted, so he asks him:
HARRY
63
What are you looking at?
DIEGO
A billboard.
HARRY
Why so?
DIEGO
In huge letters it says "Donate Blood", it includes
where one has to go.
HARRY
You want to donate blood?
DIEGO
No, no... I was thinking that "Donate Blood" is a good
title for a movie...
HARRY
Yes. It has a good ring.
DIEGO
For a vampire flick.
Harry finds it amusing. They walk toward home.
HARRY
It's true.
DIEGO
(Ironizing, kidding, improvising) Imagine that behind
the billboard a whole group of vampires that work in
ambulatory care are hiding... and they actually keep the
blood they get from donors for their own consumption,
of course...
HARRY
Your mother would like that story.
Cut to.
64
Harry gets out of a taxi. He aids himself with the typical blind
man's cane. He can't find the entryway. He bumps into something. We
have not yet seen him this clumsy. Someone helps him enter. The same
person accompanies him to the reception desk in the waiting-room area.
He is no longer the blind man who was walking euphorically along his
street's sidewalk, umbrella in hand.
HARRY
(Anxious) I am here to see Diego Garcia. He's just been
admitted.
The "receptionist" looks through the admittances. Taking into account
that Harry is blind, she decides to call the Doctor who has attended
Diego.
71
54 A.
Shortly thereafter, the Doctor appears. He heads directly for Harry.
HARRY
I am here to see Diego Garcia.
DOCTOR
Are you immediate family?
HARRY
(Improvises) Yes... I'm his uncle, and his godfather.
DOCTOR
Your nephew is at the ICU, he arrived in a coma...
Harry reacts to the news.
HARRY
In a coma?
DOCTOR
Yes...
HARRY
But, what has happened?!
DOCTOR
He ingested liquid ecstasy and alcohol... it is a lethal
combination. His friend informed us it was a mistake...
(It happens sometimes, kids grab the wrong glass...)
HARRY
My God! But Diego is a very healthy boy...
The doctor makes a neutral gesture of acknowledgement...
72
DOCTOR
Barring any complications, he will recover in six to
twelve hours.
HARRY
If that's the case, I'll wait...
DOCTOR
Go home, we will call you...
HARRY
I'd rather wait.
DOCTOR
Are you certain?
HARRY
Yes. Guide me to a place where I can sit, please...
The Doctor directs him toward an area with sofas.
DOCTOR
Would you mind providing us with his parents' phone
number?
HARRY
He only has a mother and, at the moment, she is
working outside Madrid... I would prefer to call her
myself... I don't want to alarm her, unless he is truly
in a grave condition...
DOCTOR
Normally, he should recuperate in a few hours... but,
in any case, you should have a talk with him, once
he's better...
HARRY
Yes, of course...
73
They arrive at a couch set, ugly and lacking style, Harry collapses on
one of the armchairs, demolished.
The Doctor returns to work.
The girl at the reception desk stares at Harry, who is immobile,
readied for a long wait.
A slow fade to black.
From black.
(Over an establishing shot of the mansion, one hears Harry's voice-off
as he speaks to Diego)
OFF HARRY
The reading didn't work out. We were both too nervous.
The first meeting and the reading we did only served
to make me realize that woman's very presence
perturbed me.
Great mansion, with a huge green parcel of land with various trees,
bushes, flowers... Two or three dogs are running across the lawn. The
80
plot of land must span about 6,000 square meters or more. (The dogs
approach the camera, as if it were a trespasser).
Alarm system, etc. The main building has two levels, joined by a grand
staircase. All decorated by wives with the wish to be decorators,
aided by hired decorators. Brand-name furniture, two or three
paintings worth millions. A piano and a certain desolateness. One can
tell that his previous wives have left along with a part of the
furnishings.
59. LIVING ROOM ON THE TOP LEVEL. LENA AND ERNESTO SENIOR
Lena and Ernesto spend the weekend together, at an Ibizan house
minutely decorated with ethnic details. The decoration, super-
luxurious hippie, does not ring untrue to the Island's aesthetic.
Consider that Ernesto Senior and Lena are in the bedroom, on the bed,
making love luxuriously. There's no hurry, they pay careful attention
to all the details.
After the final sprint, they both come, satisfied. Or so it seems.
Ernesto remains spent on the bed, motionless. Lena gets up and goes
to the bathroom.
She opens the faucet and lets the water run.
Immediately, she is overtaken by vicious retching. On her knees, she
vomits into the toilet.
After she's done vomiting she gets up and looks at herself in the
mirror. She wipes off her mouth and closes the faucet. She looks
very pale, the exertion from the vomiting is written on her face.
Quickly, she puts some makeup on. Enough to bring some color back to
her cheeks and to get rid of the bags under her eyes. Her eyes still
glimmer from the tears she's shed. More than in any other sequence,
it is here that Lena reveals her talent as an actress.
She exits the bathroom, wrapped in an elegant robe, a bit divine-
hippie.
It's the fist time we see this setting: the entrance of the building
where Mateo lives. Almost all the windows are darkened. It's
midnight. We watch this sequence through the 16mm camera, situated
just in front of the building's doorway.
We watch as Mateo appears on the sidewalk, walking toward the
building's doorway.
In front of the building, in the main narrative, we see Ernesto Junior
filming with his 16mm camera. He is hiding behind a bush, or cloaked
by a tree's shade. Either way, Mateo does not discover him.
105
80. ERNESTO MARTEL'S MANSION. LIVING ROOM. NIGHT. 1994.
LOWER LEVEL
At the same time that the former is taking place, Lena arrives to
Martel's mansion. She finds Ernesto Senior with a drink in his hand,
in one of the living areas (or playing the piano), she approaches him
and gives him a slight kiss on the lips, in a gesture of hello.
ERNESTO SENIOR
(Quotidian and tranquil, an unexpected demeanor for a
character of his temperament) How are you?
LENA
Good, tired.
ERNESTO SENIOR
And relaxed.
LENA
(On guard) Yes...
ERNESTO SENIOR
The yoga is doing you good, isn't it?
Lena catches Ernesto's allusion, but she pretends she hasn't. She
demonstrates her control over herself and her cold determination.
LENA
Yes, especially after work...
ERNESTO SENIOR
I am going to snack on something. Will you join me?
LENA
I am not hungry, I'd rather go to bed right now. I'll
only have a yogurt.
106
Lena climbs up the long staircase, heads directly for her room.
Ernesto listens to her steps as they recede. His ironic tranquility
disappears and gives way to a furious expression.
Fade to black.
From black. (A different day.)
Framed by the window to Mateo's living room seen from the street, one
observes the bottom halves of Mateo's and Lena's bodies, as they move
around the apartment. Only half of their body is visible because the
roman shades are halfway drawn. (One gets the impression that Mateo
is showing her around the house).
They say goodbye.
We see all this through a 16mm camera. Without a pause in the
shooting we realize that the person carrying the camera crosses the
street and waits outside of the front door to Mateo's building.
Lena exits through the door. The second she discovers the camera, she
confronts it.
LENA
Ernesto, what are you doing here?
ERNESTO JUNIOR
Working.
107
LENA
Turn that off, you idiot! Hasn't Mateo forbidden you
to tape us outside the shooting?
Not far from them there is a garbage truck that is making horrendous
noises and makes it difficult to hear what they are saying. The truck
gets closer and the noises louder so that Ernesto Junior and Lena must
scream back and forth at each other.
ERNESTO JUNIOR
My father has told me not to listen to him... he wants
to see everything.
LENA
You both have no scruples!
ERNESTO JUNIOR
Remember I am taping you.
Lena throws herself at Ernesto Junior and attempts to take the camera
from him. They struggle (the camera continues shooting, the images
move around, dizzyingly). Ernesto Junior manages to break free from
Lena. They are both out of breath. Ernesto backs up a few steps in
order to frame Lena again and so that he can focus her image. Lena
could take off running, but instead she stays right where she is; she
lets Ernesto bring her into focus and frame her correctly, while she
fixes her hair. She looks straight at the camera:
LENA
(In a barrage) Listen carefully, Ernesto. Yes, I am
talking to you. (She points toward Mateo's house) I
was just with the man I love and I am the happiest
I've been all my life because he loves me too!
(screams) And listen carefully, Ernesto! I will let
108
you be very soon! There is no need to spy on me.
There is nothing left to hide!
He exits into the night, onto a green lawn, with the woman in his
arms, they look like two newlyweds. The dogs, disconcerted, follow
them in procession, they intuit that something is not right.
Once inside the car (none of the hired help is there that night), he
opens the gate from the inside and exits onto the highway.
Lena is lying on the back seat, pale and in pain, but she's not
complaining. Ernesto is driving faster than 180 Km/hr. He alerts a
pair of patrolmen. When he realizes he's being followed, he increases
his speed. The patrolmen signal with their lights for him to stop on
the curb, but Ernesto Martel ignores their signal until the police car
catches up to him and forces him to stop.
The two patrolmen get out of their vehicle and head, enraged, toward
Ernesto. They gesture for him to lower his window.
Ernesto lowers the window, relaxed, despite the situation. The two
patrolmen, especially the one who calls the shots, recriminate him,
their voices raised, for all the infractions he has just committed.
They are very agitated and they quickly notice the high level of
alcohol emitted by the driver's breath.
Knocked out on the back seat, Lena observes the whole scene. Her face
is contorted with pain and anxiety.
113
(A river of cars continues to pass nearby.)
Using a nasty tone, one of the policemen asks Ernesto for his
documents.
The following conversation takes place while the policemen verify the
vehicle's documents. Ernesto explains to them with a common sense
that's disarming:
ERNESTO SENIOR
We have to get to the hospital. My wife is badly hurt...
Lena moans in affirmation. The Policeman takes a look inside the car,
in order to ascertain that she is indeed not faking it...
POLICEMAN
What's happened?
ERNESTO
I was in the living room and, since we weren't
planning to go out, I started drinking early. I am
pretty drunk, as you may notice. Suddenly, I heard a
thump, I ran to the stairs and there she was. She
tripped and fell down the stairs...
POLICEMAN
Is this true, Madam?
LENA
Yes... Can't you leave the paperwork for later?
POLICEMAN
Your husband can't drive in this condition!
ERNESTO SENIOR
What do you mean?
Ernesto attempts to start the car, but the other policeman stops him.
114
POLICEMAN
You're crazy!
Lena moans inside the car. She may even start crying.
LENA
Please!
She says this to the two men.
POLICEMAN
Get out of there! I will drive!
ERNESTO S.
Absolutely not!
POLICEMAN
You either let me drive or we all stay here until the
ambulance arrives!
LENA
(To Ernesto) Stop it, Ernesto! Let him drive!
POLICEMAN
(To Ernesto, paternalistic and contemptuous) Get down
and sit in the back, with your wife!
ERNESTO S.
(Threatening) If anything happens (referring to Lena),
you better be ready... You have no idea who I am!
Taking his time, Ernesto vacates the driver's seat and sits in the
back, next to Lena.
POLICEMAN
115
I will pretend that I didn't hear you. I will also
pretend I noticed neither how drunk you are nor your
affronts to authority, Mr. Martel.
Sulking and with an alcohol-driven affection (and casual) he asks
LENA:
ERNESTO S.
Are you all right?
LENA
(Screams) No! (to the policeman) And could we get (the
fuck) going?!
The policeman gets the car moving and his partner follows them in the
patrol car.
Ernesto's car, driven by the patroleman, arrives to the entrance of a
hospital.
Cut to.
Immediately, at the Emergency Room, some male nurses arrive with a
stretcher.
They enter the warehouse, temporarily turned into a studio. (The
darkness is almost absolute. A huge door opens. The silhouettes of
Ernesto Senior and Lena, on a wheelchair, enter.)
The dark, vast space is pierced by the blinding light of a doorway,
which both frames and silhouettes the figures of Ernesto and Lena,
like cut-outs; creating a powerful image. Epic and terrible.
They bump into some of the members of the team, who begin their work
day, slothfully.
When Mateo discovers the pair, he approaches them immediately.
Cut to.
The camera team directs "load camera" (new film stock is loaded, the
one already inside has run out).
Mateo has a look of worry, the scene is not funny at all, the
actresses are bored and tense. They behave like automatons. Lena
looks at Mateo, she had never seen him so disconsolate.
A general impasse and discouragement. The team betrays boredom,
preoccupation, and exhaustion.
131
The actress playing Chon grumbles, annoyed. Juanba, the hair-stylist,
approaches her to fix her hair. In the background, one sees Mateo
speaking to Lena.
Ernesto Junior wanders around the set.
We suppose that he has already shot the other takes, we notice a
change in his attitude. He watches Lena and Mateo converse, then
watches them as they move away from the set; he has no intention of
following them. One might say that he is now on their side, against
his own father.
WAREHOUSE, SHABBY STUDIO. AWAY FROM THE LOFT. AT THE
106.
MAKE-UP & HAIR DRESSING ROOM, OR SOME OTHER PLACE. 1994
In some place of the warehouse where no one can see them and they can
speak calmly. Mateo and Lena.
During this time, Lena has been keeping her end of the deal and
continues to live with Ernesto Martel but, as much as she attempts to
diffuse it, its effect has been devastating. She is very depressed.
She can hardly hold herself up. Lena's state of mind and how it
affects the shooting, makes Mateo feel impotent and guilty.
LENA
(Distressed, maybe she'll cry) I am sorry...
MATEO
Don't worry, it will turn out. (Acknowledges) But I
don't know what more direction to give you.
LENA
(Exhausted, hard on herself) You have told me
everything, in every way possible...
132
MATEO
(Somber and guilty) Ernesto is getting just what he
hoped. That we make a piece of crap of a movie! I
told you not to agree to that deal...
Lena breathes, grasping for a solution and for breath. She attempts
to regain her strength.
LENA
We can't let him have his way! (She dries her tears,
feeling newly replenished) Every day I arrive worn
out and every day I recover, right?
MATEO
(Acknowledges) Yes...
LENA
I ask you only for a bit more patience... And a kiss!
Mateo kisses her as one kisses one shipwrecked, although the one
shipwrecked is really him. In any case, the kiss brings life back to
both of them.
107. LOFT PINA. REPEAT THE TAKE. 1994
Motor. Action. The clap board indicates that they will shoot take
number thirteen. A traveling shot follows Lena as she limps toward
the door. She looks through the peephole, behind it, Chon. They are
supposed to be good friends, but she's the last person Lena wants to
see.
PINA
133
(Whispers) What a drag! (contemptuous, she greets
her) Oh, it's you?
CHON
Listen, if that's how you'll greet me, I'll leave.
PINA
No, c'mon! Come inside!
Pina treats her with a friendly disdain, which plays comically. She
has once again recovered her strength and her lightness. Her low
spirits have disappeared and she comes off thoughtless and impudent.
Her reenactment has an effect on Chon, who also performs much better
than in the previous take.
These first few phrases are enough to determine that the two actresses
have improved. Lena is now a different actress, light and delicious.
Mateo smiles, brimming with admiration.
Mateo and Lena exit Cinearte.
They enter a cab that is waiting for them.
MATEO
(To the cab driver) Take us to the nearest police
station...
137
LENA
No, please...
MATEO
We must denounce him, Magdalena!
LENA
He will turn against you!
The cab begins moving.
Mateo gives the cab driver his address.
LENA
No, not your house.
MATEO
We have to look after you. Let's go to a hotel...
LENA
(Pleads) Let's leave Madrid.
Mateo looks through his pockets, fortunately, he has all his credit
cards on him.
Mateo and Lena are living in a bungalow zone on Famara Beach, a
complex nestled between the beach and the foot of a mountain. It is a
special and intimate place, like an enormous grotto, where the sky is
its ceiling and the mountains one of its walls.
Lena and Mateo exit a bungalow and get into a rented car, a red Opel
Corsa, not in very good shape.
138
On the peak of a reddish rock, on Golfo Beach, Mateo takes photographs
of the natural wonders surrounding him. Next to him, Lena
contemplates the view.
What Mateo sees with his camera:
a) Wine colored rocks
b) The yellow-green lake circumscribed by a rope that has become
white, against the black sand.
c) The black sand of the enormous beach, licked by the shimmering foam
of the waves.
d) The rocky walls enveloping the beach, eroded through centuries by
the wind on the surface of which it has created peaks and valleys
resembling the jutted edge of a watch cog.
One of the images captures part of a wine-colored rock. Below it, the
infinite surface of the black beach, licked by the white foam of the
waves. In the backdrop, an immense limestone wall, its surface full of
pit holes where the wind circulates.
The sequence ends with a close-up of the click of Mateo's camera's
shutter, opening and closing like an owl's eye.
1994
They go through various traffic circles. Mateo comments that it is
"the island of the useless traffic circles". "That's part of its
charm", comments Lena.
1994
They stop on one of the stop signs at the traffic circle. In the
center there is a huge mobile sculpture by Cesar Manrique, rocked by
the wind.
Mateo and Lena exit the car to take pictures of themselves. Their
faces close together, their eyes happy. The sculpture turning around
itself produces a strange screeching sound.
140
Harry and Diego, now completely cured, are sitting on a bench.
HARRY
Do you want to go back home and return to the "Donate
Blood" story?
DIEGO
I am hoping to get back to it, but first tell me what
happened in Lanzarote. You can't leave me hanging!
Harry takes a deep breath. At this stage of the narrative, it is only
understandable that Diego would want to know everything. But it pains
him to think of what is still left to tell.
HARRY
Without realizing, a month had elapsed... I knew that
sooner or later we would have to return, but we kept
postponing it. I was only worried about you and your
mother. I had not even said goodbye and you were still
suffering from your allergy problem when we left... I can
imagine Judit was furious with me.
DIEGO
You can't imagine how much.
HARRY
I was planning to return soon to finish the editing...
and to explain things to your mother. But Magdalena
decided she'd wait for me on the island. She couldn't
stand the thought of seeing Ernesto again.
143
Mateo and Lena walk toward their bungalow as if someone were chasing
them. They have just run into the very thing they have been
attempting to escape in Madrid.
MATEO
I was wondering how long it would take him to emerge!
145
LENA
(Disoriented) But they can't release the film so
soon, right?
MATEO
No. It's a scheme to annoy us, and a trap to get you
to return. The ad is only lacking the words "Missing."
LENA
What are we going to do?
MATEO
Nothing. Fuck them!
A TITLE TAKING UP THE WHOLE SCREEN: TWO WEEKS LATER
A few surfers are preparing to go into the ocean. A father and his
young son toss their kites into the wind.
Lounging on lounge chairs, on a cobble-stone area before one reaches
the sand, Lena and Mateo-Harry are reading the news of the opening of
the film in a National newspaper. They only have one copy and Mateo's
eyes are transfixed on the news.
The note accompanying the event says, in bold type:
"The financier, Ernesto Martel, has managed to gather all of Madrid
for his first film as a producer, missing are only its director and
star."
Two pictures accompany the news of the event. Printed next to them,
there is a review entitled, "Disaster."
Mateo throws the newspaper away from him, enraged. He refuses to read
the review.
146
The wind dishevels the newspaper pages. Lena rises and chases the
pages that fly, like kites, slightly above the ground.
In mid-flight, she catches the Entertainment page and reads it as she
approaches Mateo, who watches the ocean, feeling impotent, furious,
unable to quite grasp what is happening.
Lena sits down next to him, still reading.
MATEO
(Disconsolate) What does it say?
LENA
That the only intelligent thing we have done has been
not to attend the premier, that my acting is pathetic,
that you seem like a first-time director and that you
lack talent. At the end, it wonders who might have
made your first films. Never before has such a
resounding downfall been witnessed... How horrible!
Mateo rises and heads quickly for the bungalow, which functions as the
office for the complex.
Lena follows him, alarmed.
LENA
What are you going to do?
(Night falls while they dine.)
Mateo and Magdalena dine at "El Mirador," a local restaurant with
spectacular views. Their table is beside a long sliding-door window
that overlooks the valley. A group of rocks seem to grow next to the
window as if they were plants made of stone. The view of the valley
is breathtaking.
There are few patrons inside the restaurant. Perhaps a foreign
couple, sitting far from Lena and Mateo. A waiter brings their first
course. They are drinking wine.
Lena appears melancholic and fearful.
MATEO
How did you meet Ernesto Senior?
LENA
150
(It's not a topic she likes, but she doesn't hesitate
to answer.) I was one of his secretaries.
MATEO
And... how did you end up with him? You fell in love?
LENA
He was very generous with me and my family. My father
was dying, I needed to take him to a private Hospital
and Ernesto took care of everything... He paid for
everything... And he made sure that my parents could
return to their home town and that they lacked nothing...
Mateo imagines the situation, it upsets him. He is perturbed by the
very idea of Lena's past with Ernesto, but he doesn't want to upset
her on the night before his departure. They have gone out to dinner
with just the opposite intent.
MATEO
(Lovingly) Pardon me, I have no right to ask you about
that time in your life.
LENA
It's only natural that you would want to know. And I
don't want any skeletons between us. (Unguarded) I
would like to be able to forget all that, but you have
the right to ask.
MATEO
(Assuring her) No. I do not have any right. For me,
you were born the day you came for the audition. You
looked at me, I saw your face and... I was left
hypnotized.
Lena smiles. She is both comforted and relived by remembering that
moment.
151
LENA
I remember your face perfectly. I think I fell in
love with the way you looked at me. I thought: this
man will be my salvation.
Mateo is moved by her use of those terms to speak of their first
meeting.
Cut to.
They exit in an embrace and head toward their car, parked nearby.
They kiss before they get in the car. We notice another car which we
will have the occasion to recall in the future, the camera gives it
just a passing glance.
LENA
(Childish) It's the first time we part...
MATEO
(Pampering) Either way, I will return next weekend.
But if you are going to be worried, you should come
with me.
LENA
No... I will be better off here.
And she smiles, as if the worry has already passed, so as not to
disquiet Mateo.
152
127. IN MOVEMENT. THE ISLAND, NIGHTTIME. INSIDE AND OUTSIDE
OF THE CAR. LANZAROTE. 1994.
View of the sea of lava or of La Geria in an aerial shot with the car
moving across the landscape. The full moon allows us to glimpse
through the darkness of the landscape.
Mateo's car once again heads for the bungalow complex. Show the
highway illuminated by the headlights and the landscape as it appears
to its left and right.
From inside the car, one can see the mobile sculpture of Cesar
Manrique at a distance.
MATEO
(Very insecure) And did I manage to save you from
anything?
LENA
(Enigmatic and unwavering) Yes!
Lena does not elaborate on the dangers that Mateo has saved her from,
he doesn't understand them exactly, but he likes to hear her say so.
They approach the traffic circle. A set of lights first betrays the
presence of a car that appears from the left. Mateo yields to it, and
briefly kisses Magdalena on the lips.
Mateo continues on his way, a short instant later, as he enters the
traffic circle, an SUV moving at full speed crashes into them.
153
Everything happens very fast. From inside the car, without any
particular attention to Lena or Mateo, the screen fills up with light,
noise and darkness. All the different noises form a deafening magma.
At the center of the traffic circle, Cesar Manrique's sculpture
rotates, propelled by the wind.
In any case, we will also shoot the crash from the outside. And
although it will not be obvious at first sight, the back side of
Mateo's car is illuminated by the headlights of a car that we never
quite see, but which has been a witness to the accident.
NIGHT. 1994.
The huge mobile sculpture by Cesar Manrique continues to rotate with
the wind immediately following the collision.
One can hear the screeching wheels of the SUV escaping from the
accident scene. One also hears the sound of a second vehicle, which
approaches and stops, and something that sounds like a door opening
and a moan.
The camera only focuses on the sculpture, swaying in the wind.
The entrance to a Hospital in Lanzarote.
Through one of the windows, we can see Mateo's gaunt and nebulous
figure resting on a bed, his head bandaged.
131. INSIDE THE HOSPITAL ROOM. LIGHT COMING THROUGH THE
WINDOW. INT DAY. 1994.
Just as in the beginning, Judit is next to Mateo's bed. She is
holding his hand and begs him:
JUDIT
Mateo, say something!
HARRY
Mateo is dead, Judit.
JUDIT
(Bags under her eyes and tearful) Don't say that!
OFF HARRY
I felt as though I had died with Lena. The Mateo-
film-director who had left Madrid would never return.
Days or weeks later.
156
Judit exits the hospital, with blind-Mateo (he's hidden behind black
sunglasses), now without the bandages or very few, and with little
Diego (eight years old), holding hands. Mateo walks tentatively and
slowly. He will probably be aided by the typical blind man's cane.
They get into a car that is waiting for them. Judit instructs the
driver to take them to Famara Beach, to the bungalow complex.
A CLOUDY AND WINDY DAY.
(This is a good opportunity to show some of the more dramatic
landscapes of the island. The lava sea, black and twisted, and the
rented car that crosses it through the highway that divides it. Or
"La Geria" and its vine stalks buried in half-spheres of black dirt to
protect them from the winds. The green palm tree fronds flop around
against the backdrop of this black-dirt landscape.)
Inside the car, Mateo asks Judit:
MATEO
Did you visit Lena's mother at her hometown?
JUDIT
Yes.
MATEO
What did she say?
JUDIT
She was very thankful to Ernesto for having taken care
of everything...
MATEO
157
That's it?
JUDIT
Yes, they buried her next to her father.
MATEO
Did you visit the grave?
JUDIT
Yes.
Mateo nods in defeated acknowledgement.
A CLOUDY AND WINDY DAY.
The car stops in front of the bungalow that functions as the
"Reception Desk" for the complex.
Judit and little Diego exit. Judit helps Mateo out.
Mateo remains glued to the ground. He can't move. Judit stares at
him. Even though Mateo had renounced being Mateo, he has inherited
his most painful memories. Being near the RECEPTION bungalow, and
thus near the bungalow where he lived with Magdalena, generates some
kind of spasm in him that keeps him from moving. He feels an intense
heat (inside and outside of him), as if he were approaching a bonfire
the flames of which would slowly scorch him, were he to move.
(Perhaps we'll have to inlay the image with the flames of an imaginary
conflagration). The face contorted.
JUDIT
What's wrong?
MATEO
158
(Weakened) You go... I can't... I'll wait for you on the beach.
The idea excites little Diego.
DIEGUITO
I also want to go to the beach!
He approaches Mateo and instinctively grabs his hand. Judit watches
the couple. The situation unfolds before she can stop it.
MATEO
Do whatever you need to do. We'll wait for you there.
Judit is worried about the wind. She buttons Diego's jacket and wraps
his scarf around him. She does the same thing with Mateo.
JUDIT
Bundle up! And don't get too close to the water. (To
little Diego) Don't let go of his hand!
Little Diego grabs Mateo's hand. Despite the wind, the boy is excited
about the idea of going to the beach. He has just become Mateo's
guide and Mateo lets him guide him, like a somnambulist.
DAY. 1994.
Mateo and little Diego walk only a few meters past bungalow number
two, where he lived with Magdalena. At that moment they are walking
facing the wind, a fierce wind that threatens to tear off their
clothes. It is as if nature itself wanted to keep Mateo from walking
away from the bungalow where he loved Lena. From this point on, his
life will become just that, an endless battle against the elements and
against the memory of Lena.
160
Little Diego's voice distracts him.
DIEGUITO
Look... There are kites!
At times little Diego forgets that Mateo cannot see. So he points
toward the sky of a nearby beach, whose surface is dotted by various
kites.
Mateo is grateful for the life-affirming sound of the boy's voice and
so he allows himself to be towed.
The wind's violent sweep over all the different elements that compose
the landscape creates a symphony of strange sounds.
Judit, using the key she was handed at the Reception Desk, opens the
door to bungalow number two. She enters into what had been Mateo and
Lena's love nest. She takes the entire space in with one glance; she
is overtaken, as if she has entered an ancestral and sacred space.
She imagines Mateo and Lena filling up the space with their presence.
(A strange modesty comes over her, but her curiosity is greater).
Lena's spirit (at least in Judit's mind) hangs in the air, but in the
material surrounding her absence is absolute. Those who took her body
did not leave any trace of Lena. Not a single object, not a single
dress. Nothing. Ernesto Senior's cohorts (or Ernesto himself) took
all of her things.
Mateo's clothes and things are found piled up in a closet. Yet the
table where he sat to write remains intact. On it, the photograph of
161
the embrace on Golfo Beach still rests, along with his notebook, blank
pages and some envelopes.
Judit observes the photograph on Golfo Beach as if it were alive,
still palpitating. And she imagines that the two lovers, locked in an
embrace, lost in the anonymous vastness of the black sand, are Mateo
and Lena.
She opens the desk's drawer and, much to her surprise, finds it
overflowing with torn photographs of Mateo and Lena, shuffled in no
particular order (one might say they had been thrown violently into
the drawer. The violence of the hand that ripped and threw them has
left its pulsating mark).
Judit picks up all the pieces, slowly and delicately, and she places
them inside a brown envelope that she finds next to Mateo's notebook.
Her sense of guilt is so profound that it dries out her throat and the
expression on her face.
At the base of the complex, on one end of the beach, the car that
brought them is waiting. Judit places the bags with Mateo's
belongings, which she has just carried from the bungalow, inside the
trunk. She raises her head, emotionally exhausted. From where she
stands she can see little Diego, ecstatic, in front of a group of
surfers wearing brilliant colors traversing the waves and a group of
kites (around eight or ten) darting through the sky like flying fish.
Mateo is motionless, in front of the sea, soaking up its strength.
Judit's pain is at odds with the boy's joy and the overwhelming
vitality that the place exudes at that very moment.
162
She begins to walk toward Mateo and little Diego. Once she is a few
meters away, she observes a surfer riding a wave. In the foreground
of her line of sight stands Mateo, out of focus. As he comes into
focus, Judit yells out to him:
JUDIT
Harry! Harry Caine!
It seems as though she is invoking the wind (a hurricane) which moves
the waves along with the expert surfers riding them.
When he hears Judit's voice, Mateo turns to face in her direction and
RESPONDS:
HARRY
We're here, Judit! (And raises his hand like a child)
Judit approaches them, petrified with emotion. The wind tears tears
from her eyes.
JUDIT
We have to go, Harry.
HARRY
(To the boy) Let's go, Dieguito. Give me your hand.
DIEGUITO
(Protests, politely) Can't we stay a little longer?
HARRY
No. We must obey your mother... You've had enough wind
for one day...
DIEGUITO
But I'm already all better!
163
Judit walks in front of the blind man and the boy, her eyes glitter.
Mateo has responded to her call, and that has filled her with
uncontrollable emotion. At this very moment she decides that she will
dedicate her life exclusively to the care of this man. This is how it
will be.
Show both terraces, the exterior one and the glass-enclosed one. The
sequence begins once all three of them (Judit, Diego and Harry) are
seated and drinking. Judit's emotional state has not improved. The
short sequence of events that she's had to live through since her
arrival have been making her increasingly tense and worried. She is
trying to combat the letdown by way of gin-and-tonic.
(They are sitting on one extreme of the ellipsis that makes up the
glass-enclosed terrace, decorated with cheesy Dec motifs).
At the center, where the bar is located, two or three waiters prepare
to clean up the tables. Once in a while, they look over at the only
three remaining clients. Once in a while, they are also able to catch
Judit's words. And once in a while, the waiters function as the
187
audience, witnessing a theatrical production. Although on this
occasion, the setting is real and so is the drama.
Judit sips-down the gin-and-tonic quite rapidly. Mateo and Diego
accompany her.
Cut to.
Judit, Mateo and Diego are inside Judit's car. Diego is driving. The
three are tense and silent.
In silence, they arrive at the entrance of the building where Mateo
lives. (Mateo is possibly carrying his umbrella or a blind man's
cane). He exits the car. Judit walks him to the front door. She is
glad that Mateo can't see her look of embarrassment.
MATEO
Good night.
JUDIT
(Destroyed) Good night. Call me if you need anything...
Mateo doesn't respond. When the entrance door shuts like a resounding
"no."
Judit waits until she sees him disappear into the elevator.
193
From Judit's point of view, Mateo disappears into the elevator, which
soon begins to rise.
165. STREET. IN FRONT OF THE ENTRANCE TO MATEO'S BUILDING.
Undone, and she no longer pretends otherwise, Judit returns to the
car.
Before she opens the door she bends over and retches violently.
Diego gets out of the car and holds her by the waist. He attempts to
help her.
Judit's face is contorted. She wipes a thread of saliva still hanging
from her lips. Despite the retching, she has not vomited anything
other than liquid.
DIEGO
(Touching her forehead) You are sweating...
JUDIT
It's a panic attack... (Takes a deep breath, as if she
had lost her wind) Hand me the purse!
Diego finds the purse in the car and hands it to her immediately.
Judit searches through the purse, impatiently. She takes the purse
and drops all of its contents on the sidewalk. She find a box of
tranquilizers. The pill she presses through the aluminum seal comes
out with a pop; she places it on her tongue. She leans over the car.
Diego looks at her, scared, he has never seen her like this.
Articulating poorly, so as to not move her tongue, Judit say to him:
JUDIT
194
This will pass soon...
As usual, Mateo buys his newspaper at the same news-agent. He turns
his body toward the Modeling Agency, but no one there enters or exits
whose odor or whose clacking heels rings familiar.
There are a few people on the sidewalk and those he crosses are all
heading, like zombies, to work.
He enters the bar where his Waiter Friend works. The place has just
opened. There are very few clients.
He greets him.
WAITER FRIEND
Why here so early?
MATEO
I couldn't sleep. Would you mind dialing this number?
He hands him the phone and the piece of paper where Ray X's number is
written.
