Outside the house Vaughn throws an overnight bag onto the back
seat of the car. He gets into the car. He slams the door shut,
grips the steering wheel. The enormity of it is impossible.
He doesn't look up at Pip looking down at him from her bedroom
window. That would break him. Worse, it might change his mind.
He starts the engine.
Vaughn sits on a bench and waits. He pulls his coat around him
against the biting cold. He checks his mobile again. Nothing.
The unthinkable crosses his face. Surely not. But then
BROOKE (38) walks across the playground toward him. She sees
him, hurries. It takes him a moment to recognise her. That
troubles him. He smiles at her  his first smile in a long
time. Her smile speaks of very real joy after very real pain.
He stands in order to greet her. She tries not to cry, but
it's impossible. She embraces and kisses him passionately.
She looks at him like he's all she ever wanted. He sees
disguised scars on her face. The scars of pain in her eyes.
BROOKE
Vaughn Black. Will you come
out and play?
She holds him, lays her head against his chest.
BROOKE
Thank you.
She has found her home in him. And he is unsettled.
Snow has turned the world into a postcard.
With a kiss and a wave, Mia drops Pip off at primary school.
She looks like she hasn't slept, but manages to be cheerful.
Mia drives then stops the car down an isolated country lane.
Her mask of courage shatters: she begins to weep like a child.
Vaughn pulls up in his car after work. He gets out. He looks
at the deep tracks his car has made in the WHITE snow. He
looks at the outside of the flat. He hesitates, then goes in.
12 | P a g e
People coming and going and cars and lorries and the city
skyline. Nothing out of the ordinary. The way things are.
People coming and going and cars and lorries and the city
skyline. Nothing out of the ordinary. The way things are.
People coming and going and cars and lorries and the city
skyline. Nothing out of the ordinary. The way things are.
Very slowly, gradually, we
FADE TO BLACK
38 | P a g e
Story #3
BLACK
SUPER
`Crackerjack'
Footsteps and breathing: the SOUNDS of a young man running for
his life. The staccato pounding of his feet becomes a mantra
that builds until it develops a life of its own, and a surreal
edge. It becomes a ghostly, dreamlike sound  evil perhaps.
The running footsteps suddenly stop. The breathing continues.
JADEN VO
(between breaths)
Aight  am done runnin'.
Do what ya gotta do.
Beat, then
FADE IN ON
Hood up, Jaden walks fast. It's dark already, and cold.
Jaden speeds up. He feels the reassuring bulge in his belt at
the base of his spine. He does this often, by habit.
He gets a text. He checks the message. Doesn't reply.
A police car cruises. Jaden doesn't react to it, but he does
so in a way that suggests that this is a measured response.
He grabs his phone, hits some keys. Someone picks up.
JADEN
(into his phone)
Where you at fam? Nah. Nah. My
brah  comin' atcha somewhere
near? Yeah. See him? When?
Owe ya back, boy. Easy now.
He kills the call, stows his mobile.
A car slows near him and stops at traffic lights. Jaden's
attention is drawn by a WHITE feather on the back window
shelf. A shadow crosses Jaden's face. The car pulls away.
He approaches a group of young male hoodies smoking and
texting outside a corner store. They greet with touched fists.
Jaden talks with a few of them, and then walks on. It's clear
that he has their respect, though they show it very subtly.
Cool and calm, Austen pockets a wad of cash. The youth he's
with stuffs something in his jacket pocket. They touch fists.
41 | P a g e
Austen goes on his way. He feels like a proper man. He walks.
He sees Jaden way ahead. Jaden sees him, starts running.
Austen runs. The streets blur around him into a narrative of
his life: the urban landscape dancing to the beat of his feet.
Runs, runs, runs
Jaden and Austen
They sprint the streets, the alleys, the music, and then
Jaden catches him and
GRABS HIM
ON Austen's snarl, FREEZE FRAME and
Jaden walks. He is assured and cool. This is his stage.
He feels the bulge in his belt at the base of his spine.
He gets a text. He checks the message, likes it. He replies.
He greets a group of other hoodies with small talk and fists.
Done, he moves on down another street. He has goods to sell.
He takes a call, makes another, texts and talks. Smooth.
45 | P a g e
A BMW
Swerves near him, splashing him with headlights.
Jaden looks, sees faces he doesn't want to see.
He speeds up and then runs down a side street.
The BMW follows. Now Jaden
Runs, runs, runs
This is our first scene over again.
The streets blur around him into a narrative of his life: the
urban landscape dancing to the beat of his feet. But
Jaden wasn't born to run. Dodging up an alley he slows, turns.
The BMW doors open. Three men get out, follow him.
The glint and sound of shanks being drawn, ready.
Breathing hard but measured, Paul turns and faces them: a big
black guy, an ugly white guy and a tall Chinese guy.
Jaden feels the bulge in his belt at the base of his spine.
JADEN
(between breaths)
Aight  am done runnin'.
Do what ya gotta do.
The big black guy comes at him with the shank. It's J.C.  the
hood from the party. The other guys back him up.
J.C.
An' all
dis for a three oh four.
(kisses
his teeth) You could
had her
anyways if you'd asked
me nice
fam, swear.
J.C. lunges at Jaden. His shank cuts Jaden mid torso. The
other guys follow up, their blades flashing, searching.
Jaden withdraws the bulge at the base of his spine. His gun.
BOOM  his gun speaks - he shoots J.C. dead.
BOOM, BOOM
46 | P a g e
The gun speaks to the other two guys, killing China outright
and wounding the white guy badly. White guy falls, screaming.
JADEN
Shut the fuck . . .
He kneels over white, tries to stop him screaming. But he
SCREAMS
over and over - blood pouring from his punctured chest.
JADEN
Looks around, desperate for him to stop it. Already
THE STREETS
around him are changing  as if they are turning to look but
WHITE GUY
Screams and grabs at his bleeding chest. His wild eyes beg.
JADEN
Begins to fold, to lose it as reality comes rushing in and he
SHOOTS
White guy dead. Shuts up. Silent streets. Then after forever
SIRENS
Grow out of the darkness.
Jaden throws his gun away instinctively. Incrimination. He
starts to run. Changes his mind. Turns and picks the gun up.
Sirens seem to haunt the city. And now Jaden
RUNS
So that the city is just lights and people and cars and noise
and people and darkness and people and there, amongst them
AUSTEN
Watching him, his brother and his idol. So now we
CUT TO BLACK
47 | P a g e
Jaden crouches down in the darkness, blood on his hands, blood
on his shirt, blood on his cut torso, blood on his soul.
Jaden stashes his gun in a cloth under the floorboards.
Jaden is tormented by what he's done. Self-loathing.
J.C. and the other dead guys  a bloodbath. Sirens growing.
Jaden throws up on a street corner.
Jaden tucks his old man up in bed safe.
All the time
Austen seems to be watching, learning, admiring. Idolising.
CUT TO
Austen walks home from school. Kids look at him.
Something has changed.
Jaden walks the streets. Hoods look at and greet him in a
different way. Respect, but this is a dead man walking.
Jaden drives Austen, who is in his school uniform. His hands
up on the wheel, the dragon tat on Jaden's arm is visible.
To Austen, Jaden looks a little pale, a little ill.
They see a cop car. Another passes them coming the other way.
AUSTEN
Five oh everywhere. Wot's poppin?
JADEN
Police. They're called police.
AUSTEN
Bacon fryin' for breakfast.
Jaden throws him a look.
Their shared secret dominates their every breath.
AUSTEN
Wot's poppin with the pussy, fam?
JADEN
Jesus fucking Christ. You mean
how's the young lady in your
life, my blood? Since when
the fuck you become some kind
of born again reggin?
AUSTEN
I wonder if you should mind
you language in front of your
baby brah, blood.
JADEN
I say blood, you say blood. I
say brah, you say brah. I say. . .
AUSTEN
Potato, potarto, tomato, tomarto.
They drive a while. Then Jaden sees that Austen's hair 100%
exactly matches his own in terms of its length and styling.
50 | P a g e
JADEN
You get your hair cut?
AUSTEN
And?
They approach the school.
Austen glances at Jaden's torso and then gets out of the car.
JADEN
Brah? You turn into me and
I'll kill you - hear?
Austen looks at him. Tears well up in his eyes. He nods.
Emotionless, Jaden closes the car door and drives off.
On the pavement, Austen watches him go.
Jaden sprints flat out through the people, cars, and lights.
At this speed his footsteps are barely a fluttering staccato.
He won't make it.
Jaden sprints flat out through the people, cars, and lights.
He rounds a corner in time to see Linden's car smoke away.
CUT TO BLACK
UP ON
52 | P a g e
Fugitive Jaden stands looking into the flowing river. He is
pale and gaunt and dirty. Austen stands behind him. He looks
exactly how Jaden used to look. And his torso is bandaged.
Jaden squints at him.
JADEN
Why you fuckin' grass me up.
Though you was my brah.
Austen thinks about it for a while.
AUSTEN
I didn't tell the pigs. Just
(falters, then) . . . just
Hugo up school.
Traffic SOUNDS ebb and die. History flows down to the sea.
AUSTEN
Told because I was proud of ya
brah. Massive proud.
Jaden looks at him. Proud of him? Fuck.
AUSTEN
Couldn't help it.
Jaden has to hold on to the railings now.
AUSTEN
What the pigs gonna do with ya?
54 | P a g e
Jaden looks around him. Darkness is falling.
Austen produces a gun from the base of his spine. His gun.
JADEN
Where the fuck . . ?
He stares at Austen's gun. Tears blur the evening.
He says it with his tears. This isn't going to happen to you.
AUSTEN
Only way you're gonna stop me
turning into you is by killing
me, brah. Long one short.
Austen holds his arms out as if to say `this is what I am'.
Jaden reaches for the base of his spine.
Austen stands there waiting for Jaden's bullet.
Jaden takes his hand away from his gun.
Jaden mumbles something inaudible.
AUSTEN
Say what brah? Too much . . .
He indicates his ears, that wanking makes you deaf, laughs.
JADEN
(a mumble)
Said go home. Fix dad's tea.
I'll be there soon as. OK?
Jaden stands there alone. It's getting cold.
AUSTEN VO
(Jaden's memory)
Only way you're gonna stop me
turning into you is by killing
me, brah.
JADEN
Got a better idea, baby blood.
Jaden pulls out his gun and shoots himself in the head. Dead.
55 | P a g e
Uri gets out of the taxi and pays the driver.
He then turns to face the address. He tries to move naturally,
but his body is stiff with misgiving. He takes a breath to try
to calm himself. He manages to walk to the front of the
apartment block. He starts to walk up the steps to the front
door; but then he retreats. He steps backwards, then begins to
walk away. He can't do it. His hands are shaking. He makes
fists to stop them. He takes another breath, looks up at the
apartment block. He is sick with stress. He forces his limbs
to obey him. He manages to walk back to the steps. He manages
to walk up the steps. Eventually he manages to press the
BUZZER
In urban winter darkness a hoodie walks down an alley. He uses
the deep shadows to conceal himself. He scopes out the back of
the houses he walks past, as if looking for an opportunity.
A radio advert ends OVER:
AD VO
. . .not that you'll be needing
one now that your house
assurance is on the house. Cheers!
As the VO ends there is the sound of drinking glasses knocking
together in a busy pub, then an inane radio ad jingle, then:
