1. FILLING THE FRAME like a picture postcard. Modest, old-fashioned,
spotless  a vision of small town normalcy and virtue.
This is the home of MARGARET WHITE and her daughter CARRIE. It seems
to have been scrubbed from roof to porch; it is white. Even the lawn seems to
have been washed and bleached. Antiseptic.
We hear a woman's voice:
MARGARET (o.s.)
Carrie! Carrie
The voice is distant but insistent. It is heard, in perspective, through the following prologue,
which initially involves:
2. STELLA HORAN  DAY
An all-American sunbathing beauty of eighteen, getting the tan of her life with only a skimpy
white bikini running interference between her skin and the sun.
The CAMERA SLOWLY PANS OVER the expanse of her body  luxuriant, taking it in
inch for inch as she dreamily rubs in suntan lotion and licks her lips. The MUSIC is coming
from a transistor radio by her side; she's on a beach blanket in the Horan back yard.
3. DOWNWARDS ANGLE  STELLA
As she senses someone standing over her, someone staring at her body through the half-
grown hedge which separates the Horan back yard from the White house next door.
VOICE (O.S.)
What are those?
2
4. STELLA'S POV  CARRIE WHITE
A terribly appealing little girl, a child of indeterminable age. Pink cheeks, a halo of blonde-
white hair which will darken in time. What sets her apart from other children, however, are a
pair of bright button brown eyes; and it's these eyes that we notice as she peers at Stella
through the hedge.
STELLA
Hiya, Carrie. Gee you gave me a fright.
(turning down the radio)
How long have you been there?
CARRIE
(not smiling; pointing with her finger)
What are those?
Stella looks where Carrie is pointing; the top of her bikini has slipped, just barely revealing
her breasts  white against the golden tan. Stella adjusts her suit  not out of any particular
modesty of her own but as a reflex at being stared at so strangely.
STELLA
Those are my breasts, honey.
CARRIE
(a beat; then solemnly)
I wish I had some.
STELLA
You will. `Course you'll have to wait a
couple of years, but 
CARRIE
(a fact)
No I won't.
STELLA
Why, sure you will.
CARRIE
(emphatic)
No, I won't.
(glancing behind her)
Momma says no... Momma says good girls don't.
3
STELLA
(at something of a loss)
Well, I'm a good girl. And besides, doesn't your mother have breasts?
5
CARRIE
Glances anxiously at the mention of her mother at the White house next door.
She swallows her words so that all Stella and we hear is:
CARRIE
...dirtypillows.
STELLA
What?
CARRIE
Momma calls them dirtypillows. Says she's got them
`cuz she was bad when she made me.
6
STELLA
Incredulous. But she senses that Carrie is both perfectly serious and quite worried, and she
too glances warily over at the White house just beyond the half-grown hedge.
She kneels next to Carrie and tries to laugh it off.
STELLA
Now, honey, that's just silly. Listen  you must be real
hot in that long dress. What do you say we go inside and
get us some lemonade, would you like that?
7
CARRIE
Clearly torn  tempted but in the clutch of some weird terror  as if she expected the
earth to open and swallow her up. She shakes her head.
STELLA
C'mon.
(offering her hand)
It'll be our secret.
Carrie  now really scared  shakes her head and disappears farther into the hedge.
4
CARRIE
I can't!
STELLA
Sure you can. I make it nice and sweet, and 
And just at that moment, a figure appears in the second-story window in the White house.
Although Stella and we really can't distinctly see through the sun's glare, it's unmistakably
MARGARET WHITE. The moment this big woman sees her daughter with Stella, she lets
out a bloodcurdling scream:
MARGARET
CAARRIEETTAAA!!!
8 CARRIE, STELLA
Both frozen by this terrible sound
9 STELLA'S POV  CLOSER ON CARRIE
As she sucks in her breath, quivering with fright, looking as if she might faints. She looks
quickly to Stella, then back at the White house, then back to Stella. For the merest flash, she
seems to smile  or is she about to cry?
And then, she's gone  running around the hedge and then up the porch stairs and into the
White house as fast her legs can carry her.
10. STELLA
Stands there, riveted. Not knowing what's happened, what to do. It's utterly silent for a
moment.
And then, an incredible CACOPHONY of strange sounds starts coming from the White
house  an unearthly babble as Margaret White screams, rants, and screeches; as Carrie sobs
that she's sorry, that she forgot.
STELLA
Mother!
(louder)
Mother!
5
11. THE HORAN HOUSE
As MRS. HORAN  in an old housedress with the hem falling down in the back  rushes out
to answer to her daughter's call.
MRS. HORAN
What in the name of God? What's the matter?
STELLA
(frantic)
I don't know... Carrie was just talking to me,
and Mrs. White started screaming and...
12. THE WHITE HOUSE
The sun glistening brilliantly on it as in the opening shot. Again, it should appear like a huge
glass globe over which we counterpoint one mother/daughter dialogue with the less distinct
babble of another:
MARGARET (v.o.)
I told you to stay away from there, I told you....
CARRIE (v.o.)
I'm sorry, Momma.
MARGARET (v.o.)
...to stay away from that girl, that whore...
CARRIE (v.o.)
Please, Momma!
MARGARET (v.o.)
... of Babylon!
Which continues over:
13. TWO SHOT  STELLA AND MRS. HORAN
Their eyes riveted on the house  trying, squinting to see through the sun's terrible glare.
STELLA
Don't you yell at her like that! Stop that!
MRS. HORAN
That poor sweet child...
6
STELLA
Mother, we've got to do something!
MRS. HORAN
What?
STELLA
Call the police? Mother, call the police!
MRS. HORAN
(not about to interfere; hopeless)
The child...
At this point, the hysteric babble reaches its crescendo; we should be able to pick out phrases
in this cacophony as Margaret rants at Carrie to go into her closet and pray for forgiveness;
as Carrie's frightened little voice proclaims that she forgot, that she's sorry. And then
suddenly the screaming stops and it's quiet  dead quiet.
14 THE WHITE HOUSE
As it becomes more distinct, visible. There's a low WHISTLING sound, and then what
appears to be a stone the size of a small pebble lands on the roof.
Another, slightly larger one appears a second or two later. And then another, and another,
and...
15 TIGHTER TWO SHOT  STELLA AND MRS. HORAN
squinting, blinking at the pebbles which are coming down like marbles.
16 THE WHITE HOUSE
as it's pelted with what are now even larger stones  WHISTLING, SCREAMING in the air
like miniature bombs.
Stones from a perfectly blue summer day.
Stones ranging in size from marbles to handballs.
One of them hits a downspout, knocking it onto the lawn. CRASHING, CRACKING
SOUNDS as these pieces of granite tear into the stucco roofing, leaving holes.
The effect is that of a drum being bombarded.
7
17. TWO SHOT  MRS. HORAN AND STELLA
Frozen to the spot: Mrs. Horan with her hands over her ears, her screams blending with the
SOUND of larger and larger stones as they pelt the house and we hear Margaret throughout
screaming:
MARGARET'S VOICE
Stop that! Stop that!
Stella is clutching Mrs. Horan like a child terrified by the freakiest of summer storms  a
healthy young woman as her figure in the bikini testifies, but a child nonetheless, this
nightmarish moment.
18 THE HOUSE
As still larger stones hail from the sky.
And then just as suddenly and inexplicably as they started, they stop.
19 TWO SHOT  THE WOMEN
Mrs. Horan with her hands still over her ears, her daughter standing next to her, transfixed on
the lawn. Once again, it's quiet.
20 THE WHITE HOUSE
As one final stone  this one the size of a mere pebble  falls from the roof and plops onto
the lawn.
The image grows lighter and lighter. All the color seems to bleach out, turning the screen
once again into an incredible, silently blazing white.
MAIN TITLES.
Now some years later  and no longer glistening so whitely or mysteriously. We see the
front of the house as the door flies open. Carrie, now sixteen or seventeen, appears in the
doorway, carrying school books. As she comes out on the porch, the screen door bangs
behind her.
8
She is wearing a shapeless, drab dress  much too long, not so much out of style as utterly
without style. What remains in this adolescent girl that links her with the pretty child we
glimpsed in the prologue are those remarkable eyes.
As she comes down the porch stairs, we hear:
MARGARET'S VOICE
Carrie!
Carrie stops, turns to reply into the house.
CARRIE
Yes, Momma.
MARGARET'S VOICE
You come straight home from school.
A moment of hesitation on Carrie's part, a very slight hint of rebellion, but:
CARRIE
(sweetly)
I always do, Momma.
Then she turns, walks to the street, gathering pace, quickening.
22. EXT WHITE HOUSE  ANOTHER ANGLE
As Carrie walks down the path from the porch and turns at the sidewalk, in the course of
which she passes by where the Horans used to live. Only the Horans no longer live here. No
one does. It's a vacant lot with a FOR SALE sign out front, with overgrown weeds. From
the looks of them, the house vanished a long time ago.
Carrie is walking to school, the sun shining brightly above her. The farther she gets from her
house, the livelier she seems. We sense that underneath this drab dress is a girl pushing out,
an altogether different creature than her appearance would suggest. And to help persuade us
about this possibility, there is MUSIC.
24 BOBBY ERBETER
About five, BOBBY bikes on the other side of one of the streets, keeping pace with Carrie on
a twenty-inch Schwinn with training wheels.
9
BOBBY
Hey, fart-face! Hey, old praying Carrie! Praying, Carrie, praying
Carrie, praying Carrie!
Carrie favors him with a sweet tolerant smile and goes on toward the high school, in the
background:
Bobby, frustrated, stops astride is bike and screams after her.
Bobby's face 
DISSOLVE TO:
25 THE FACE OF AN ADOLESCENT
Or as he is known in school, THE BEAK. He is pathetically thin, myopic, weak-chinned,
beak-nosed, almost a caricature of an adolescent reject. Over his face, we HEAR:
FROMM'S VOICE
What are you going to leave for us,
You people in your big cars
Spewing pollution into the air?
We PAN the faces of adolescents, listening with various degrees of attention, indifference, or
reluctance, to:
FROMM'S VOICE
You people with heavy feet
Trampling down the wilderness?
You people who peer into the back seats of our cars
Hours after you come out of the back doors of your motels.
Soon all we will have is each other, and that could be enough...
Two teams of girls, among them NORMA WATSON, HELEN SHYRES, CORA and
RHONDA WILSON (sisters although not identical twins), CHRIS HARGENSEN and SUE
SNELL. Supervising the game is MISS COLLINS wearing a warm-up suit and holding a
whistle awaiting the next point. Among the girls is CARRIE anxiously watching for the ball
to come her way. It has apparently been a close game, the competition building steadily.
When the shot begins, Miss Collins has just blown her whistle to announce:
COLLINS
Okay, now. This is game point.
This is the final point of the game and Rhonda Wilson is serving (she is on the opposite team
as Carrie).
RHONDA
(giving the score)
Twenty  Twenty.
The ball is successfully served and remains in play for some time as the girls skillfully volley
it back and forth over the net. And then, just when the tension is its greatest, the ball comes
over the net toward Carrie. It's evident that the outcome of the game depends upon her
success. The little boy who decided to put his finger in the dyke had it easier.
The other girls are (AD LIB) shouting cautions and admonitions to Carrie. Carrie almost
trembles with tension, about to bat the ball over the net, afraid to hit it.
Carrie whacks the ball. She shacks it hard. And on a line  straight into the net.
Another chorus of groans, with remarks like "Wouldn't you know!" and "Dumbo!"
reinforcing them. Chris storms back toward Carrie.
CHRIS
(low, harsh)
You eat shit!
Miss Collins blows her WHISTLE.
CUT TO:
13
37 INT SHOWER ROOM  DAY
Steam partially obscures the girls as they whoop and holler and cavort under individual
showers. They banter little barbed pleasantries, bits of sexual information, family plaints,
talk of college  all of which we hear from separate stalls.
One by one the showers are turned off, the girls stepping out, removing pastel bathing caps,
toweling, spraying deodorant, bras hooked, underpants stepped into. Steam hangs in the air.
So do words, running into one another, tumbling, drifting.
`...Tommy says he hated it on me... My sister's husband picks his nose... So does your
sister... too cheap to spend a penny... we'll go after school... I'm going with Billy, we'll
meet you... Friday night...'
We PICK UP Miss Collins as she steps among the girls, spies Carrie still standing under the
shower. She claps her hands together once, smartly.
COLLINS
What are you waiting for, Carrie?
(as Carrie looks at her)
Bell in five minutes.
CARRIE
Oh uh?
As Collins departs, and the other girls start to move toward their lockers, Carrie is left alone
in her shower stall. She is soaping herself. In a virtual reverie, she begins at her shoulders,
moving her hands over her breasts in small, regular, virtually erotic circles. Her hand goes
out of frame, below her stomach. Slowly, it emerges back into frame  full of blood. And
just as she and we see this, so do the girls.
CHRIS
Peer-iod! Peer-iod!
Carrie stares at her dumbly.
The other girls are quick to take up the chant. Chris leads them.
GIRLS
Peer-iod! Peer-iod! Peer-iod! Peer-iod!
One voice chimes in:
NORMA
14
Plug it up!
Others take up this new chant. For a while, like counterpoint, he chants overlap; then the
new chant emerges solely:
GIRLS
Plug it up! Plug it up! Plug it up! Plug it up!
Dime-sized drops are striking the tile floor at Carrie's feet.
SUE
For God's sakes, Carrie, you got your period.
(as Carrie turns toward her)
Clean yourself up!
Carrie seems bewildered.
SUE
(furiously)
You're bleeding! You dumb pudding, you're bleeding!
Carrie looks down and wails, the sound is very loud.
A tampon strikes Carrie's chest, plops to her feet. Carrie just stares at it.
NORMA
She thinks they're for lipstick.
Behind her, another girl pretends to throw up.
Shrieks of laughter. Another tampon strikes Carrie. Another. The girls are bombarding her
with tampons and sanitary napkins, some from purses, some from the broken dispenser on
the wall. As they bombard Carrie:
GIRLS
Plug it up, plug it up, plug it up, plug it up....
We isolate Sue Snell at the moment she joins in the chant, and watch her beginning to be
caught up in what can only be described as a fury.
Carrie howls and begins to back away, howling louder and louder.
The door is flung open by Collins.
COLLINS
15
What is this?
And she takes it in. She jerks the whistle to her mouth, blows and blows! The sound is
louder than a shriek (which it resembles) or a howl (which it doesn't).
And there is sudden silence.
COLLINS
(to girls)
Get out! Get out!
The girls retreat, Sue last.
SUE
It must be her first...
COLLINS
Out!
As the girls slip out, Collins turns to Carrie, who has backed up and is whimpering. Collins
slaps her face, not too hard at first, then with a flash of anger.
CARRIE
M... M... Miss Collins...
COLLINS
Stand up. Take care of yourself.
CARRIE
I'm bleeding.
One blind searching hand comes up, clutches Collins' white shorts, leaving a bloody
handprint.
COLLINS
Damn you!
She hurls Carrie part way across the room toward the broken sanitary napkin dispenser.
COLLINS
Get over there! And take one!
CARRIE
16
I don't know...
COLLINS
Never mind the coin slot... It's broken.
CARRIE
It hurts... my stomach...
COLLINS
(grabbing her)
Do it! Now.
CARRIE
I can't. I don't know how!
There's a bright flash as a light BULB POIPS, fizzling out. Collins is surprised.
COLLINS
What...?
And she looks at Carrie. Her anger seems to seep away. Her voice softens.
COLLINS
Carrie, don't you know...?
(shakes her head, realizing and wondering)
You don't.
(reaches for Carrie)
I'll show you.
DISSOLVE TO:
38A INSERT INT WAITING ROOM  DAY CARRIE AND MISS FINCH
A quiet residential street in a lower middle-class neighborhood. Carrie is walking down the
street, slowly.
51 ANOTHER ANGLE
There comes Bobby Erbeter again on his bike, paralleling Carrie (as before)
BOBBY
Hey, fart-face! Hey, old praying Carrie!
52 CARRIE
She keeps on walking, ignoring him.
53 BOBBY
Keeping pace with Carrie, shouting across the street.
BOBBY
Fart-face, fart-face, fart-face...
54 CARRIE
Turning toward him, her face contorted with rage.
55 CARRIE'S POV  ANGLE ON BOBBY
The bike wobbles on its training wheels.
And the bike topples over, on top of Bobby, who screams
56 OMITTED
57 CARRIE
CLOSE now, featuring her eyes most prominently. Her face is uncertain, confused. What
just happened? She thought (that's right, thought) something and it happened...
And we HEAR another SCREAM, more of an angry shriek, and then the strange sight and
SOUND of:
22
58 FLASH CUT
As the stones pelt the White bungalow years ago.
59 CLOSER
The stones pelting the roof.
60 CARRIE
She is staring across the street at:
61 BOBBY
Screaming with anger (more than anything else) as he disentangles himself. He stands up,
looks toward Carrie across the street, shakes his little fist.
BOBBY
(defiantly)
Fart-face!
62 CARRIE
The boy's defiant chant can be heard as Carrie blinks, wondering. Then she opens her eyes,
wider. She looks at the boy. She frowns for a moment.
63 FLASH CUTS
The stones.
The light bulb exploding.
The ashtray falling.
We hear:
BOBBY'S VOICE
Fart-face, fart-face, fart-face!
64 CARRIE
A faint smile, partly of wonder, partly of a strange kind of joy. She knows.
23
DISSOLVE TO:
MOVING IN SLOWLY on Tommy Ross' 1963 Ford, which is parked in the shadows on The
Hill (something of a ridge which overlooks the town and is dedicated to Eros by high school
students and occasional graduates). The MUSIC swells as we MOVE IN. And finally, we
PEER into the car, where we see:
Sue sits in the bleachers overlooking the field. She is preoccupied, still shaken by the
afternoon's confrontation with Chris. The track team is moving past the bleachers (a coach in
the field clocking them and shouting orders). Tommy, in his track uniform, peels away from
the group and comes running up to Sue.
TOMMY
Hi!
SUE
I want to talk to you.
TOMMY
Sure, what's up?
To avoid the noise of the cheerleaders practicing down in front of them, and the other girls
sitting in the bleachers half watching their boyfriends and half eyeing Tommy and Sue, Sue
beckons Tommy to follow her away from the group behind the bleachers, and as they walk off
together we hear the following:
SUE
If I asked you to do something for me  something special  would you?
TOMMY
(nodding)
Uh-huh.
SUE
No matter how crazy it sounded?
TOMMY
Sure. What?
The sound is muffled, and we don't hear what she says. But we do hear:
TOMMY
(continuing; exploding)
Are you out of your mind?
53
CUT TO:
A big hangout-cruising night on the boulevard. Neon, convertibles, "Rebel Without a Cause"
meets "American Graffiti" seventies-style. In other words, the works -- with MUSIC.
As a '61 Chevy leaves a sizeable patch of rubber on the street as it GRINDS to a hard stop,
just barely halting before it almost went through a red light and collided with the traffic
already in the intersection.
LOOKING DOWN on a parking lot where cars are parked; a huge pullman's car which has
been converted into a restaurant. This after-school hangout is called the Cavalier.
As Tommy's Volkswagen parks across the street, Tommy gets out and approaches the White
house.
Carrie is inside, watching him come up the stairs. She remains on the hall side of the screen
door.
TOMMY
So this is where you live.
CARRIE
What... what're you doing here?
66
TOMMY
(laughs)
Aren't you going to ask me in?
She shakes her head; he laughs again, a little nervously. Throughout this scene in which he
remains on the porch side of the screen door, he catches glimpses of the weird house within.
TOMMY
(continuing)
Why not?
CARRIE
Momma's resting. What do you want?
TOMMY
Right to the point, huh? Okay, about the prom.
CARRIE
I already told you.
TOMMY
(a little charm)
Nothing to stop you changing your mind. Girls do it
all the time.
CARRIE
Why are you doing this?
TOMMY
Hey, I'm asking you because I want to.
CARRIE
No.
TOMMY
Look, I don't do anything I don't want to.
CARRIE
I can't.
TOMMY
Sure you can.
In the background  in the kitchen, perhaps  Margaret calls out Carrie's name.
67
Carrie glances nervously behind her; then back at Tommy.
CARRIE
You better go.
MARGARET'S VOICE
Carrie! Who are you talking to?
TOMMY
Don't you think you better answer?
CARRIE
No one, Momma.
TOMMY
You're going with me.
CARRIE
I can't.
TOMMY
You're going.
CARRIE
They'll laugh.
TOMMY
No one will laugh. We'll see to it.
CARRIE
Please. Please go.
TOMMY
Not `til you say yes.
Carrie swipes at her eyes with the back of her hand; helpless, honest, confused. She'd really
like to go at this point, but that extra sense in her is resisting.
CARRIE
Why? Why is it so important to you?
TOMMY
I don't know. Maybe it's because you liked my poem.
68
MARGARET (o.s.)
Carietta!!!
And in just these split seconds, she decides; had he not "liked" her poem, had Margaret not
called, perhaps she could have held back.
CARRIE
Yes.
(beat)
Okay.
TOMMY
I'll pick you up at eight.
CARRIE
(whispering)
Fine.
(then)
Thank you.
Tommy smiles at her and, turning to leave, touches her hand against the screen door. A
goodbye, nothing more. He goes down the walk toward his car.
149 CARRIE
Watching him. She takes the hand he "touched" and brushes the hair back from her face. A
little beautiful? You bet.
MARGARET'S VOICE
Carrie? Did you hear me?
CARRIE
Coming, Momma. Coming.
And as she turns away from the door, we:
CUT TO:
FULL FRONTAL VIEW of thee bungalow IN the FRAME.
The lights are on downstairs; there's a slight drizzle and haze. HOLD, then:
CUT TO:
Leading to Henty's farm. A slight drizzle; or, the ground is still wet. A little more than a
crescent moon silhouettes a group of five: Billy and Chris in front, and Billy's twitchy zoo  a
completely wrecked KENNY GARSON, a very nervous FREDDY DE LOIS, and an
occasionally giggling, goggled HENRY TRENNANT  trailing behind. De Lois is swinging
a nine-pound sledge-hammer in the air; the other two goons are struggling with an ice-chest
and steel pails. Henty's farmhouse and barn are in the distance.
DE LOIS
Hell of a risk for a joke.
Trennant giggles inanely. Billy stops and glares at De Lois.
BILLY
You want out?
DE LOIS
(hastily)
No, uh-uh.
(then)
It's a good joke, Billy.
Trennant giggles again.
Garson is stoned silly  zonked, deadpan. He greedily sucks the last remnants of a joint into
oblivion before our eyes.
De Lois angrily snatches the roach out of Garson's fingers.
DE LOIS
(continuing)
Hey, piggie...
Trennant just giggles inanely.
Another long beat, then:
DE LOIS
(continuing)
You sure Old Man Henty won't be around?
76
CHRIS
I told you. He's at a funeral.
Trennant explodes into a fit of high-pitched laughter.
BILLY
Shut up, Henry.
DE LOIS
Whose funeral did he go to?
BILLY
His mother's.
DE LOIS
His mother's? Jesus Christ, she musta been older than God!
Trennant lurches into another cackle. And in spite of themselves, Billy and Chris start
laughing, too. Even De Lois starts laughing.
The group passes a "No Trespassing" sign, prompting:
DE LOIS
(continuing)
The bastard is going to shit where he stands when he comes
back and gets a look.
Garson drops one of the pails on the ground.
BILLY
Asshole.
The sound of Trennant's high-pitched giggle.
DISSOLVE TO:
158 CHRIS'S POV  THE HOG PEN
And OVERLAPS INTO the harmonic chanting of De Lois, Trennant and Garson:
THE BOYS
Soo-ee, soo-ee
Pig-pig-pig...
Soo-ee, soo-ee
Pig-pig-pig...
77
And an old sleeping boar and two sows are GRADUALLY REVEALED.
159 FULL SHOT  PANNING
The face of five  COMING TO REST on De Lois.
DE LOIS
Doan worry, piggies, doan worry. I'm gonna bash your fuckin'
heads in, and you woan have to worry `bout the bomb no more.
BILLY
Shut up and do it already.
DE LOIS
I will, I will. I'm not gonna give `em time to burp.
BILLY
The throat.
But it's too late. De Lois has lost all conviction.
DE LOIS
I... can't.
(then)
You.
He hands the sledge hammer to Billy.
Chris, chilled to the bone, rubs herself to keep warm.
CHRIS
Do it, Billy.
Billy touches the ball of his thumb to the edge of the sledge hammer.
CHRIS
(continuing)
Do it quick.
And Billy smiles. Yes, he actually smiles. As he raises the sledge hammer, we GO TO:
BLACK
FADE IN:
78
The sun is shining  perhaps the next day, a day later. The house is a picture postcard  under
it, we hear the sweet, muffled sound of "Amazing Grace." It's just loud enough for us to hear
it  joyous, triumphant.
DISSOLVE TO:
Hand in hand, Carrie and Tommy walk down the path toward his car.
They are observed by:
179 MARGARET
at the window of Carrie's room.
The school gymnasium is lit up brightly for the Prom; cars are pulling in, among them,
Tommy's Ford.
Sue Snell  unable to contain her curiosity about how all this has worked out  pulls up in one
of her parents' cars, parks, and deliberates coming in. The lights of the gymnasium are
glowing. While inside:
locked out by Morton, trying to get back in. The door won't open. She debates going to try
another door.
235 UNDER STAGE  CHRIS AND BILLY
as the song reaches its crescendo:
ALL (o.s.)
With pride we wear the red and whyyyte...
BILLY
(leering)
It can stay there until hell freezes over, Chuckie.
Chris shudders involuntarily at the mention of this nickname. She violently jerks the cord
with both hands, yanking it. A sound  half-scream, half-moan  comes from her mouth,
overlapping into:
237 THE STEEL BUCKET
high above the stage, slowly tipping over, the blood pouring from it.
238 LONG SHOT  THE STAGE
almost proscenium-like in this FRAMING, from all the way in the back of the gym.
Carrie and Tommy sit on their huge thrones as the buckets above them deposit their contents
on top of them.
239 CLOSER
The blood splashing down...
240 THE MURAL
Some of it splattering on the celestial cyclorama, running downward, streaking...
241 THE BAND
As more blood splatters them in their white dinner jackets, the MUSIC halting.
109
242 THE STAGE
End SLOW MOTION.
Tommy and Carrie, drenched with blood.
243 CHRIS AND BILLY  UNDER THE STAGE
Preparing to leave now that their mission has been accomplished, just about to crawl out as
they spot:
244 MORTON  CHRIS AND BILLY'S POV
realizing they'll have to stay put  trapped now.
CHRIS
(panicky)
Billee!!!
BILLY
(nervous too, hissing)
Shut up!
They crawl back under the stage, out of sight.
As Carrie exits, the doors swinging shut. Behind her, through the windows, we see a wall of
fire collapse behind her.
She passes Sue in the hall who's sobbing hysterically. And as Carrie exits, Sue runs into this
inferno of fire to find Tommy. And then the town WHISTLE BLOWS... and BLOWS. It
overlaps onto:
DISSOLVE TO:
Carrie's on her way home. At this point, she looks less like a girl that the survivor of a grisly
car accident; wet, caked with blood, eyes glistening madly, almost shapeless. She goes down
a hill, and then, from:
310 ANOTHER ANGLE  THE HILL  NIGHT
as a fire truck rushes toward the school, past Carrie. And then shortly afterward, out of
nowhere, Billy's Chevy  it's headlights gleaming, lurches forward; it's headed right for her.
311 CARRIE
Turns around and sees it coming toward her.
Stones are crashing on the house.
Sue is hurtled out of the house.
Sue, rising from the ground, see stones crashing into the house.
She begins to run away.
Sue stops running. She turns to look at the White house.
338 WHITE HOUSE  SUE'S POV
The stones are flattening the house. The house is being pounded into the ground.
339 SUE
Terror and disbelief. Nightmare.
340 THE WHITE HOUSE
The rain of stones stops.
Silence.
Then the house begins to sink  slowly, slowly, slowly  into the ground.
125
And the ground is swallowing up the house.
And covering it until  nothing remains. Not a trace.
DISSOLVE TO:
Some time later  a week, perhaps two weeks after the nightmares of Prom Night.
Where the Horan house used to stand, now vacant. Strewn with beer cans, overgrown with
grass and weeds and wildflowers. And a FOR SALE sign.
We PAN over next door where the White house used to stand. It, too, is vacant but utterly
bald  there's been no time for anything to grow here. There is another FOR SALE sign put
up by Born Realty.
344 SUE SNELL
looking utterly haggard and perhaps a bit on the loony side from a lack of sleep stands staring
at the lot. She's standing there in her white nightgown, barefoot.
345 THE WHITE LOT  SUE'S POV
as she slowly walks toward it. Underwater, almost floating. We come closer on the sign
which now starts appearing a bit odder  less like a simple FOR SALE sign and more like a
grave marker.
And when we get close enough, we see that some graffiti has been hastily scrawled in chalk
on the sign:
CARRIE WHITE IS BURNING IN HELL FOR HER SINS
And below it, in a second vandal's handwriting, some idiot's notion of one final joke:
JESUS NEVER FAILS
346 SUE
as she kneels down, putting the wreath she's carrying next to the marker. She proceeds to try
to wipe off the red chalk with the palm of her hand; it smudges badly.
She stares at her hand, fixating on it, remembering Carrie in the shower. Suddenly, a second
hand thrusts into frame, onto her nightgown.
A bloody hand.
A hand from the Earth itself.
Carrie's hand
It clutches a horrified Sue by the wrist. Tightly. A vice.
127
Sue begins screaming uncontrollably. The hand is trying to pull her into the ground. Her
screams turn into howling.
CUT TO:
347 SUE
Still screaming. But now in her room, waking from what is, indeed, a bad nightmare.
Upright in bed, screaming her head off, her face covered with perspiration.
Eleanor Snell rushes into the room to the bed, embraces her hysterical daughter.
ELEANOR
It's all right, it's all right, darling.
SUE
Mother?
And we come in close on Sue's stricken face as her mother holds her, calming her, cradling
her. Closer still on Sue's eyes. She closes them, and we go to:
BLACK
Carrie
Writers : Lawrence D. CohenStephen King
Genres : HorrorThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb