The October sun slashes through the gray clouds, cuts across the
shadow towards the sea, along the coast where the new suburbs of the
city of Giancaldo have been built up.
Bright light streams through the windows, glancing off the white
walls in an almost blinding reflection. MARIA, a woman a little over
sixty, is trying to find somebody on the phone.
MARIA
...Salvatore, that's right,
Salvatore. Di Vita Salvatore
...But, miss, what do you mean you
don't know him?!...I...Yes...
(She gives a nervous sigh.
She has dialed her way
through endless numbers
but still hasn't managed
to speak to Mr. Di
Vita. She finally heaves a
sigh of relief.)
...That's right, good for you!
Oh!...yes...And I'm his
mother. I'm calling from Sicily. Been
trying all day...Ah, he's not
there...But would you be so kind as
to give me...?...Yes...
(She nods at another woman
around forty sitting
nearby: it is LIA, her
daughter, who jots down
the numbers her
mother dictates:)
...Six, five, six, two, two, oh,
six...Thanks ever so
much...Goodbye. Goodbye.
She hangs up, takes the number LIA has jotted down, determined to have still
another try. LIA speaks to her as if she were a baby, to be more convincing.
LIA
Look, Ma...It's useless calling him.
He'll be terribly busy, God knows
where he is. Besides he might not
even remember. Do as I say, forget
it...He hasn't been here for thirty
years. You know how he is.
MARIA pauses to think it over. The decision she has to make is important. Then,
stubbornly.
MARIA
He'll remember! He'll remember!
(She puts on her glasses
and starts dialing
the number.)
...I'm positive. I know him better
than you do. If he were to find
out we hadn't told him, he'd be
angry. I know.
(She takes off her
glasses.)
...Hello? Good morning. Could I
please speak to Mr. Salvatore Di
Vita. I'm his mother...
2
It's late, but there is still traffic on the streets heading downtown.
Inside a high-powered car, a man
around fifty is driving. It is
SALVATORE Dl VITA. Elegant, just growing gray, a handsome face
creased by deep wrinkles. His weary expression hides the determined,
sell-assured manner of the successful self-made man. He must be a
heavy smoker judging by the way he draws the last puffs on his
cigarette.
He stops at a red light. He stubs out the cigarette and rolls down the
window, as a little Fiat Uno pulls up alongside. A rock tune plays full
blast on the radio. SALVATORE turns instinctively to have a look at the
man at the wheel
a BOY with a brush cut standing straight in the latest
fashion. He studies the Boy's expression with almost exaggerated
attention, but devoid of curiosity, coldly. The GIRL sitting beside him,
lots of curly hair, overripe red lips, returns SALVATORE'5 look,
provocatively. The BOY notices, turns to SALVATORE in a surly voice:
BOY
Hey! What the fuck you looking at!?
Green light. The Fiat Uno shoots off, leaving a trail of music in its wake.
3
The tolling of the bell-tower rings out over the
square. It is noon. The vast square, pale and dusty, is alive with people. A
noisy line of men, women and cows waits in front of the fountain to get water.
Peddlers hawk their wares in mournful cries. People come and go in front of the
town hall. The working men's club is deserted. The entrance of the Cinema
Paradiso is shut. Hanging outside is the poster of the film that has just been
seen on screen. Up above, the windows of the projection booth are open. The hum
of the projector can be heard and the loud, lofty music typical of 'THE END'.
Then dead silence. The showing is over.
A noisy crowd of little children in black smocks, white collars and blue
bows moves about the large courtyard where there are two tall palm
trees. The boys head for one door, the girls towards the opposite one.
The Janitors line them up two by two, ready to enter. Here and there,
parents and relatives accompany the younger ones. Beneath one of the
palms, SALVATORE pulls off the altar-boy tunic, stuffs it into the
khaki-colored cardboard schoolbag, takes out the smock and puts it
on, as one of his schoolmates passes by. It is MASINO, and he's crying
desperately because he doesn't want to go to school. His FATHER drags
him along, yelling:
MASINO'S FATHER
You can fool your mother but not me!
Get yourself a damn diploma and
become a policeman. You good-for-
nothing!
MASINO
I don't want to go to school'
(The sound of the bell.
The black lines move up
the steps towards the
school.)
1O
The bell-tower rings midnight. The square is nearly deserted. Except
for a landowner near the refreshment stand, with a moustache and a
hat, DON VINCENZO by name, who is picking out from a group of
labourers the men he'll be needing in the country at dawn. He chooses,
points his finger, calls...
People come out of the movie house after the last showing.
The USHER locks the front door as ALFREDO climbs down from the
projection booth. Among the crowd there is only one kid, SALVATORE.
Tired, half-asleep. He's seen all the showings. He starts to walk away
when he catches sight of his mother standing on the opposite corner,
wrapped in an old coat. She's waiting for him, in a temper.
SALVATORE drops his eyes to the ground, mortified. He knows what's
coming. He goes over to her timidly, uncertain, gives her a questioning
look.
MARIA
I've been looking for you all day.
Did you buy the milk?
SALVATORE
No...
MARIA
Then where's the money?
SALVATORE
Somebody stole it.
MARIA gives him a slap. SALVATORE holds back the sobs, but
his eyes brim with tears. ALFREDO and the USHER are nearby,
have heard everything.
MARIA
What'd you do with the money? Go to
the movies?
SALVATORE nods his head and the sobs increase. MARIA, in
despair, flies off the handle, slaps him again, but looks as if she
doesn't really want to, as if deep down she forgives her son's
escapade. ALFREDO catches on, speaks up on behalf of
SALVATORE.
ALFREDO
Signora Maria, don't do that. He's
just a kid.
(To SALVATORE)
And why are you telling fibs?
(To MARIA)
We let him in free. He must have lost
the money inside the movie
theatre...
(SALVATORE stares at him
in amazement, goes on
listening to him.)
How much did you have?
SALVATORE
Fifty lire...
(MARIA wipes away his tears.)
ALFREDO
(To the USHER)
What you find tonight on the floor
between the seats?
(The USHER reaches into-
his pockets, pulls out
some odds and ends.)
USHER
A comb, two heel-savers, a box of
tobacco...
(ALFREDO very skillfully
reaches out with fifty
lire he has taken
from his pocket. And like
a magician he draws the
money out of
the USHER'S hand.)
ALFREDO
...and fifty lire!
(To MARIA)
See?
(He hands over the money
under the USHER'S
astonished eyes.)
MARIA
Thanks, Uncle Alfredo. Thanks. Good-
night.
She walks away, dragging SALVATORE by the hand. ALFREDO
gives him a wink. SALVATORE smiles and winks back, but he's
not very good at it; he can't manage to shut only one eye.
Everybody leaves and the square empties, as the VILLAGE IDIOT
comes up to the group of labourers, beside DON VINCENZO,
motioning them all to get moving.
IDIOT
It's midnight. I've got to shut down
the square! Go away.
The square's mine! The square's
mine!!
13
SALVATORE, dressed as an altar boy, walks alongside the PRIEST
who is wearing the ceremonial vestments. They are tired, have walked
a long way. Behind them a donkey pulls a wagon containing a little
white coffin and a bunch of flowers. Behind that a little procession
the
parents and relatives of the dead child. The road is very wide, covered
with white earth. The spring sun is dazzling. The funeral procession
kicks up a cloud of dust that makes everything blurred and hazy, like a
dream, rimmed around the horizon by the blue line of the sea. The
procession now turns into the large gate of the cemetery. ALFREDO,
working in the fields, takes his hat off and watches the coffin as it passes by.
Cut to:
The funeral is over. The PRIEST and SALVATORE are walking back
to the village. ALFREDO appears out of the countryside on e bicycle
with a hoe and other farm tools in the basket. He comes pedaling up
beside them.
ALFREDO
Good morning, father. It's hard on
the feet, huh?
PRIEST
(Breathless)
Yeah!...Getting there's downhill and
all the saints help you. But coming
back! The saints stand there watching
you, that's all! God's will be done.
SALVATORE is about to open his mouth, wants to say something
to ALFREDO, but he doesn't have time. ALFREDO pedals harder
and rides off.
SALVATORE is crestfallen. He looks et the PRIEST, then at the bicycle riding
away. His eyes light up
an idea! He suddenly yells:
SALVATORE
Ouch! Ouch! My foot! I can't walk!
He limps. Throws himself to the ground as if a snake had bitten him. The PRIEST
leans over in alarm. Up ahead in the distance, ALFREDO turns around to look.
Cut to:
There is a smile on SALVATORE'S face. He is riding on the crossbar of ALFREDO's
bicycle. On their way back lo the village.
SALVATORE
Alfredo, did you know my father?
ALFREDO
Of course I knew your father. He was
tall, thin, pleasant, and had a
moustache like mine. Always smiling.
He looked like Clark Gable.
There's something SALVATORE wants to talk about, but he doesn't know how to
start. He has a try with an innocent stratagem.
SALVATORE
Alfredo, now that I'm older, I'm not
saying I can start coming to the
projection booth, to the movie
house...But...maybe, why don't we
become friends?
ALFREDO knows exactly what the little rascal is up to, and answers in a
strange, theatrical tone, as if he were repeating something he knows by heart, a
remark taken from some old film.
ALFREDO
'I choose my friends for their
looks, and my enemies for their
brains...'
(Laughs)
You're too smart to be my friend.
Besides, as I always tell my kids, be
careful to pick the right friends!
SALVATORE
(Surprised)
But you don't have any kids!!!
ALFREDO
(Spluttering)
All right, all right! When I've got
kids that's what I'm telling them!
(The outlying houses of
Giancaldo finally heave
into sight.)
14
LIA, SALVATORE'S kid sister, is crying outside the front door, terror
stricken. Her face is smeared with smoke and her little dress half
scorched and soaking wet. MARIA is distraught, damp with sweat, and
tries to console her, hugging her in her arms.
MARIA
Stop crying...The fire is out...I'm
here...That'll do, that'll do...
(ALFREDO and SALVATORE
come up behind them.
SALVATORE has barely leapt
off the bicycle when his
mother sails into him like
a fury, shrieking:)
Miserable boy! You're the ruin of me!
Your sister would have been burnt
alive if I hadn't been there! And all
your fault!
SALVATORE darts off, chased by his mother, swift as a deer.
ALFREDO doesn't understand what has happened, leans over
LIA, who goes on bawling her eyes out, and sees on the ground, in
the middle of the water, a flowery box all charred and still
smoking, and all around scraps of film reduced to ashes and
several singed photographs, the photos of SALVATORE s father.
ALFREDO gets the message now, looks up at MARIA, who has
caught SALVATORE and is dragging him home, hitting and
slapping him all the way. SALVATORE covers his head with his
hands to stave off the blows. MARIA turns to ALFREDO, in a
stern, indignant voice.
MARIA
But aren't you ashamed of yourself,
Uncle Alfredo, playing with a little
boy at your age?!
ALFREDO
(Cowed)
But...what's it got to do with
me?...
MARIA
And who gave him all those films?
Promise you won't give him any more
of this trash! Don't let him set foot
any more in the movie house. The
boy's crazy! Crazy! All he talks
about is movies and Alfredo' Alfredo
and movies!!
ALFREDO is crestfallen, didn't think that SALVATORE'S craziness, his morbid
passion for movies, could go this far.
ALFREDO
I give you my word, Donna Maria.
(MARIA now turns one last
time to her son.)
MARIA
God's got to grant me one wish! Send
your father back home! And he'll see
you get what's coming to you!
(SALVATORE lowers his
hands, looks at her and
with the dreadful
sincerity of children:)
SALVATORE
Daddy's not coming back...He's dead.
(An icy flash runs through
MARIA'S eyes.)
MARIA
It's not true! No! It's not true!!!
I'll show you he's coming back!
And she beats him desperately, as if to enforce her stubborn hope, slap after
slap. This time ALFREDO doesn't step in, lets MARIA give vent
to her rage and fury, but SALVATORE'S cries make him feel guilty.
Another Sunday. A crowd of men has gathered in the square around the caf where
there is a loudspeaker. They are listening to the running commentary of the
soccer games. They check their Sisal pools coupons. NICOLO CAROSIO'S VOICE
...We're at the seventh minute of the second half. Turin is leading one to
zero. The goal was scored by...(The scene is seen from above, by ALFREDO who
peers out of the window of the projection booth. CAROSIO'S voice drowns out the
soundtrack of the film being shown. ALFREDO is bored. He goes over to the
projector, looks through the hole...It's the last sequence of the film. The
music swells to a climax as 'THE END' appears on the screen. Swift as ever,
ALFREDO turns on the lights in the theatre' stops the projector. Looks back
through the hole, to see...)
...the house packed to the rafters. Voices and laughter of the children. Smoke,
ice-cream, soft drinks. The USHER has opened the emergency exits to let in air.
He fights off the gate-crashers who are trying to get in free. The sound of the
sports commentary fills the theatre. The village BLACKSMITH is sleeping in his
seat, his head thrown back and his mouth wide open. The KIDS blow up the empty
ice-cream sacks and pop them next to his ears. Bang! The BLACKSMITH wakes up
with a start, in a sea of laughter. He yells:
BLACKSMITH
Ah! I'll wring all your necks!! Or my
good name means nothing! !! Lousy
brats!
SALVATORE doesn't laugh. He is sad. He turns and looks up at the projection
booth. He sees ALFREDO through the lion's mouth. ALFREDO also catches sight of
him. SALVATORE gives him a timid wave of the hand, as if asking if he can come
up a moment. The look on ALFREDO'S face is unmistakable, irrevocable: N0!
SALVATORE'S not surprised; after what happened it won't be easy to win him over.
Yet there must be some way. But what is it? As usual, SALVATORE is smart as the
devil when he's out to get something. Through the emergency exit he sees a woman
pass by with a packet in her hand. It is ALFREDO's WIFE, and the packet is his
supper. SALVATORE leaps to his feet and runs out to her.
SALVATORE
Signora Anna!
17
ALFREDO starts up the projector. It's time for the documentaries and
cartoons. SALVATORE peers in from the top of the stairs. He's scared of
ALFREDO'S reaction, but pricks up his courage and shows him the
packet. ALFREDO sees him, is about to pounce on him...
SALVATORE
(On the defensive)
Your wife told me to bring you this.
His expression betrays the 'put on'. ALFREDO sighs, realizes it's another one of
his little games.
ALFREDO
(Sternly)
Give it to me!...
He takes the packet, unwraps it and lifts the lid, shuts it again and puts the
container inside the lamp of the projector to keep it warm. SALVATORE hasn't
missed a single gesture, but speaks with his eyes
to the poor.
SALVATORE
I told my mother you weren't the one
who gave me the films. That it
wasn't your fault. But I thought you
said the film could catch fire just
to scare me. Now that I know, I won't
steal any more from you. That's all I
wanted to say. I'm going.
(He turns to leave but
ALFREDO takes him by the
shoulder and stops
him.)
ALFREDO
Toto, come here.
All things considered, there is something in that little boy, maybe his
feverish passion, that strikes him. He'll talk to him seriously, without
resorting to terrorism, try to convince him. He lowers the volume of the
monitor, sits down on the stool. SALVATORE raises his eyes from the floor and
looks at him at last...
ALFREDO
Now listen to what I've got to say. I
took up this profession when I
was ten years old. In those days
there weren't these modern machines.
The films were silent. The projectors
were run by hand, like this, with a
crank. And you wound the crank all
day long. It was really rough going!
If you got tired and slowed down'
boom! Everything would go up in
flames!
SALVATORE
Then why don't you want to teach it
to me too? Now that there's no more
cranking, and it's easier?
ALFREDO
(Firmly)
Because I don't want to, Toto! This
is not a job for you. It's like being
a slave. You're always alone. You see
the same film over and over again,
because you have nothing else to do.
And you start talking to Greta Garbo
and Tyrone Power like a nut! You work
on holidays, on Christmas, on Easter.
Only on Good Friday are you free. But
if they hadn't put Jesus Christ on a
cross...You'd work Good Fridays too!
SALVATORE
Then why don't you change jobs?
(ALFREDO sighs, irritated.
He reaches out to turn the
knob of the carbon rods.
He gazes at SALVATORE as
if he were a grown-up,
somebody who's making
things hard for him.)
ALFREDO
Because I'm an idiot. How many other
guys in town know how to be a
projectionist? None! Only a jerk like
me could do it. Besides I wasn't
lucky. When I was a kid there was the
war! When I grew up, another war! Now
it's all different. Times have
changed. And you want to be a dope
like me? Huh? Answer me!
SALVATORE
No...
ALFREDO
Good for you, Toto. Good for you...
I'm only saying this for your own
good...
(He gets up and, speaking
all the while, goes into a
closet with a bucket
in it, the toilet of the
booth. He turns his back
and pees. )
Cooped up in here you die of heat in
the summer and of cold in the winter.
You breathe in smoke, gas fumes, and
earn practically nothing.
(SALVATORE listens to
him, but taking advantage
of the fact he can't be
seen, he turns the knob of
the carbon rods, just as
he had seen done a moment
before...)
SALVATORE
(In a loud voice)
But don't you like anything about
what you do?
(SALVATORE gazes at the
photos on the wall:
Keaton, Garbo, Snow
White. ALFREDO
smiles to himself. Sure,
there's something about
that damn job he likes:)
ALFREDO
With time...you get used to it.
Besides, when you hear from up here
that there's a full house and that
people are laughing, having fun...
Then you're happy too.
(ALFREDO is lost in
thought, doesn't notice
that the documentaries
and cartoons have
finished. The screen is
blank. And down in the
theatre laughter is not
heard but an uproar of
whistling and
swearing. SALVATORE'S eyes
sparkle, he seizes the
opportunity.
He turns on the lights and
stops the projector, just
as ALFREDO
would have done. At which
ALFREDO buttons up his
pants in a
hurry and rushes over
alarmed, but sees that
everything is in order.
SALVATORE looks at him all
smiles, as if he expected
a medal for
civil bravery. Instead,
ALFREDO reacts like a wild
animal.)
So I've been wasting my breath? You
pretend to agree with
me, but as soon as my back is turned,
you do what you want!
(He gives SALVATORE a kick
in the ass, shrieking:)
Get out of here! I don't want to lay
eyes on you again! This is
the last straw! Your mother's right,
you're crazy!!
(He pushes him towards the
stairs. SALVATORE suddenly
vanishes, scared out of
his wits. ALFREDO talks to
himself, in a
fury:)
But how'd he do it? The little
bastard! By watching, he's
learned! It's incredible!
(He peers out of the
window, yelling, as he
sees SALVATORE
running through the
square. )
I'm letting the box office know
you're not to set foot even into
the theatre! There are no more
tickets for you! And I'm also
talking to Father Adelfio! You won't
be an altar boy any more
either!!! You little runt!
(SALVATORE looks at him.
Hates him. Yells something
offensive:)
SALVATORE
Alfredo, go fuck yourself!!!
(But his words are drowned
out by the sudden shouting
of the people outside the
caf.)
CROWD
Goal!! Holy Mother of God!!!
(A MAN in the crowd
crumples to the ground.
The others swarm around
him, alarmed. They hold up
his head. His face is
pale. They check the
coupon he is clutching in
his hand. A voice rises
like a siren from the
crowd.)
MAN
Ciccio Spaccafico's won the
Sisal!!!!!
(The yell can be heard...)
I8
Summer has come. The village has a different look. The peddlers sing their
monotonous refrains in the village streets. In one street, women are busy
canning tomatoes. In one corner of the square, the SHEARER has finished clipping
the donkey and is now shaving the hair of a row of bare-chested URCHINS with
nothing on but their underwear. Then another MAN disinfects them by spraying
them with the hand pumps used to spray trees in the country. The URCHINS
laugh. The BILL-POSTER is hanging up the posters of a new film, 'TODAY AT CINEMA
PARADISO .
20
Another farewell scene in the square. PEPPINO to his grandparents. His father
and mother are also there, saying goodbye to the old folks. There are tears. The
cardboard suitcases tied with string are loaded on to the luggage rack of the
black car. The scene is watched by SALVATORE and ALFREDO, up in the window of
the projection booth. They look like old friends. On the sound monitor, the
strains of some American musical comedy tune.
SALVATORE
Will they really find work in
Germany?
ALFREDO
Who knows?...It's like an adventure.
(In a theatrical voice)
Hope springs eternal...
(PEPPINO from the distance
gives one last wave at the
window of the
projection booth.
SALVATORE waves back.)
SALVATORE
Peppinoooo! Come back sooon!!
(The black car drives off,
leaving a cloud of dust
that envelops the
suppressed sobs of the
grandparents standing
there waving
handkerchiefs. SALVATORE
watches the car drive off.
He mumbles:)
Good thing Germany's closer than
Russia.
ALFREDO rubs his hand through his hair.
24
MARIA walks through the city. She holds SALVATORE by the hand. SALVATORE looks
up, trying to catch her eye. He sees her crying, in silence. The heartbroken
tears of someone who has lost the one last hope, but held back, so as not to be
seen by the child. SALVATORE presses close and puts his arm around her waist.
They turn the corner, and walk off in the noisy city, disfigured by the ruins of
war. A poster for Gone with the Wind catches SALVATORE's eye. He smiles.
27
Winter has returned. On the screen, a sequence from I pompieri di Viggiu. The
theatre is jam full. The sea of heads sways and shakes at the irresistible jokes
of Toto.
Some people have climbed up on the window-sills. The aisles are crammed, an the
way down to the screen, where grown-ups and children sit on the floor, their
noses in the air. Some people munch crusts of bread they've brought along from
home. Almost everybody is smoking. A woman laughs, holding the baby she is
nursing. In one corner, at the end of one of the aisles jammed with people
standing, a girl laughs, but every now and then her expression reveals a look of
deep pleasure.
Her body moves slightly. Clinging to her from the rear is a man bathed in sweat.
They are making love standing there among the crowd, which notices nothing and
goes on laughing.
In the balcony ANGELO is holding hands with ROSA.
The curtain over the entrance is open. People are also standing there,
seeing what they can from the distance, even a corner of the screen
through the forest of heads. But the line continues on outside...All the
way to the entrance of the movie house, out in the square. There are
crowds of people, shivering from the cold, who protest, shove, risk
provoking incidents. The PRIEST, Father Adelfio, is exhausted, tries to
calm them down.
PRIEST
Don't shove! There's no room! For
heaven's sake! I can't
give another showing, it's late!
VOICES IN CROWD
Father Adelfio, we've been here for
an hour! There are people inside
who've seen it twice! ! ! Move on!!
Ouch!! My foot!!!
It has just stopped raining, the bell-tower rings eleven o'clock. On
the poster of the film a ' LAST DAY' sticker. The PRIEST, the
TICKET-SELLER, the USHER and TWO CARABINIERES push the crowd back, close the
front door. The protest grows louder. Fists pound the door.
CROWD
Open up!!! Father Adelfio!!
(The audience in the
theatre hears the uproar.
Reacts:)
AUDIENCE
Ssssh! Sssssh! Be quiet out there!!
What the hell!
(From the window of the
projection booth, ALFREDO
and SALVATORE look at the
crowd down below, yelling
and complaining. Some of
the people look up at
them. )
VOICES IN CROWD
Alfredooo! We want to get in!...
Tomorrow you're taking it off!
(ALFREDO spreads his arms
out as if to say there s
nothing he can do.)
SALVATORE
Why can't we show the same film
tomorrow?
ALFREDO
It's got to be sent to another town.
And if we don't the owner of that
movie house gets pissed off.
SALVATORE
Too bad!
The crowd sways nervously. The CARABINIERES give order.
CARABINIERES
(Exasperated)
Stop! Go home, all of you! Otherwise
somebody's going to end up in jail!'
That's enough!
ALFREDO
(Dramatically)
'Joe! A mob doesn't think, doesn't
know what it's doing...'
(SALVATORE gives him a
curious, inquisitive look.
ALFREDO smiles.)
Spencer Tracy said it in Fury.
(Mischievously)
What'd you say if we let these poor
devils see the film, Toto?
(SALVATORE stares at him
in amazement, all
excited.)
SALVATORE
Wonderful! But how can it be done?
ALFREDO turns away from the window. He gives a smirk, imitates the tough
American movie stars.
ALFREDO
You don't believe my words, but
you'll have to believe your own
eyes!...And now get your ass off
that damn stool, boy!
SALVATORE laughs, eagerly, as if he were about to see a whole new movie. He
climbs off the stool. Both of them move towards the projector...
28
Trying not to put his hand in front of the lens, ALFREDO removes the
frame with the glass that protects the projection. He wheels it around
and motions SALVATORE to look...On the wall behind the projector:
the film picture appears gradually, reflected by the glass, moves as the
glass moves all the way over to the window looking out over the square.
There it disappears. SALVATORE can barely believe his eyes, as if it
were a piece of magic. He takes a quick look through the hole to see if
the film is still showing on the screen. It is.
ALFREDO
(Mysteriously)
Go to the window, boy, and have a
look...
SALVATORE goes over to the window. Looks out. The reflected
beam of light ends up on the white row of houses facing the
square. It's like another screen. Except the images are
backwards, like when you look in a mirror. And here and there
are the windows of the houses...For SALVATORE, it's a
wonderful spectacle, like a dream, ravishing.
SALVATORE
Alfredo, it's beautiful.
(A voice is heard in the
crowd of people jammed
around the entrance to the
movie house.)
VOICE IN CROWD
(Shouting)
Hey, look there!! The movie!!
(All heeds turn to look at
the house behind them.)
CROWD
Oh, praise the Lord!! It's true!
Look! The movie!! There's Toto!!
Hurry! Hurry!...THANKS, ALFRED0000!!
And everybody runs over to the other side of the square, in front
of the strange new screen. ALFREDO and SALVATORE watch with glittering eyes.
SALVATORE lays his hand on the shoulder of his great pal.
SALVATORE
Good for you, Alfredo!
A close-up of Toto projected on the houses, and one of the windows opens. A MAN
appears, in his pajamas. Dazzled by the light, he shades his eyes with his hand.
He sees all those people looking at him and laughing together.
CROWD
Shut the window!! Shut the window! Go
to bed!!
The MAN is dazed. Doesn't now what's going on. Looks around, and sees the
black-and-white figures of the film dancing around him. He pops back inside,
slams the window shut, almost cared.
VOICES IN CROWD
(To ALFREDO)
Sound!!! Sound!! Alfredooooo!!
ALFREDO
What do you say, should we make them
happy?
SALVATORE
(Smiling)
Sure, sure!
ALFREDO takes the loudspeaker of the monitor, rings it over to the window,
turns it around towards the square. He turns up he volume and the sound-track
fills the square. A chorus of approval.
CROWD
Aaaaaaaa! At last!
ALFREDO
(Looking at SALVATORE)
Do you want to go down there?
(SALVATORE gives a
contented nod.)
Go on.
SALVATORE runs on. ALFREDO looks wistfully towards the huge image in the
square. Down in the square SALVATORE heads for the crowd, his eyes trained on
the house-front screen. Behind him, the door of the movie house opens. The
PRIEST, Father Adelfio, sees the film being projected on the house front,
the people standing or sitting on the ground, laughing. His eyes nearly pop out
of his head. Then he motions over the TICKET-SELLER, whispers something into his
ear. The TICKET-SELLER strides over to the shivering spectators, pulls the pad
of tickets out of his pocket.
TICKET-SELLER
Ladies and gentlemen! You have to buy
tickets! Reduced rate!
An irresistible chorus of Bronx cheers washes over him. SALVATORE looks around,
highly amused.
CROWD
Fuck off!! The square belongs to
everybody!
(The VILLAGE IDIOT peers
Out Of the crowd, all
worked up.)
VILLAGE IDIOT
No!!! The square's mine!!! Come on,
kids, no joking around here!!!
Otherwise...
The crowd roars with laughter. SALVATORE laughs too, as if carried away by it
all. And over the general merriment looms the shadow of ALFREDO, standing in the
window of the projection booth. All at once, on the house-front screen, the
image of Toto slows down for an instant, a white blister appears and spreads
until it fills the whole screen. The crowd gives a start of bewilderment and
fear. SALVATORE jerks his head around to look at the booth.
29
The flash of the flames flares up in the windows of the projection booth.
SALVATORE is appalled, elbows his way through the moving
crowd. Inside the movie house the murmuring of the audience can be heard,
growing louder and louder. A scream...
The crowd streaks out of the movie house, enveloped in a cloud of black smoke.
CROWD
Heeeelp! Run for your lives!!!
In the general panic, SALVATORE tries in vain to get inside, elbows his way
towards the street with the stairs leading to the projection booth. The audience
clashes against him, knocks him to the ground, almost trampling him underfoot.
He is suddenly seized by a superhuman force; gets up, claws his way desperately
ahead, with people falling on top of him and to the floor. He finally succeeds,
starts up the stairs...
33
The fire has been put out. Nothing remains of the movie house but the skeleton.
Everything has gone up in smoke.
People stand around, dismayed. They gather around the PRIEST, who is at once
grieved and shocked, to express their solidarity and comfort.
VOICES
What a pity! Poor Alfredo! What a
terrible thing!! Cheer up, Father, is
there something we can do?'
VILLAGE IDIOT
(Laughing)
Burnt up...Burnt up.
PRIEST
What'll we do now! The town will have
to get along without movies! Who's
got the money to rebuild it?
CICCIO SPACCAFICO, the man who won the Sisal pools, comes up, dressed in style.
He looks up at the charred cinema. It looks like a battlefield after an enemy
attack. From the smoke and ashes to...
36
...The great lighted sign of the CINEMA PARADISO . The movie house has been
rebuilt. New facade. New billboards. There are people
moving about the entrance. It is the evening of the inauguration...
37
As the BILL-POSTER attaches to the caf door a poster of Catene - the
coming attraction at the Cinema Paradiso - CICCIO SPACCAFICO is
speaking on the phone in the phone booth. He is clearly peeved.
SPACCAFICO
Only two days? Are you joking?!...
What do I care if all the copies
are reserved?...Catene for only two
days in a place like this! Why,
people will eat me alive!...
(Standing beside him
listening is SALVATORE. He
is carrying school
books under his ann. In
the caf, several curious
ONLOOKERS laugh as through
the caf window they watch
some unemployed PEASANT
MEN dancing together at
the club. SPACCAFICO
listens nervously, then
shrieks as if he were
about to eat the phone.)
...I know, I know. But even if I
start showing at eight in the morning
it wouldn't be enough! This is a big
town now and you people at the
Titanus know it perfectly well! I'm
your sole agent and if I get pissed
off I'll write straight
to Lombardo, in Rome!! I'll give you
guys a good run-around!! If I get my
dander up, I can let fly, if my
name's Spaccafico!!
Cut to:
SPACCAFICO AND SALVATORE are now outside the caf, head towards the square. In
front of the movie house, the CHARWOMAN is at work. SPACCAFICO is so nervous he
lights two cigarettes without noticing it. SALVATORE is turning something over
in his mind.
SALVATORE
Don Ciccio, I've got an idea...You
remember that old abandoned movie
house where they're supposed to build
those low-rent houses?
SPACCAFICO
So what's that got to do with it?
SALVATORE
The projector's all rusty, but I
could fix it in two or three days.
Give the place a good cleaning, put
in some seats and bring in a
projectionist and we'll show Catene
in two houses.
SPACCAFICO
(Shrieking)
What the fuck you talking about? You
getting into the act too, Toto?
Titanus has trouble giving me even
one copy and I have to say thanks! If
I ask for two, the least they'll do
is cut off my head and play ball with
it!
A shrewd look glitters in SALVATORE s eyes. He smiles.
SALVATORE
Who says we need two copies?
42
BOCCIA speeds like an arrow on his bicycle through the village streets. Tied to
the parcel-rack is the sack containing the second part of Catene. He now turns
off the main street and takes a short-cut down a country road. He pedals as fast
as he can. Until he disappears into the distance, beyond the trees.
45
BOCCIA finally reaches the old movie house, which has been more or less spruced
up. Here too people are lined up in front of the posters of Catene. CICCIO
SPACCAFICO is waiting impatiently on an outside staircase. He too is holding a
sack, containing the first part of the film. The bicycle pulls up in front of
him. The sacks are exchanged.
SPACCAFICO
Quick! Give it to me! Here's the
first part. Get moving!
BOCCIA heads back to the Cinema Paradiso, to take the first part to SALVATORE.
SPACCAFICO dashes up the stairs, and hands the sack to a MAN standing in the
door, through which the bare projection booth can be seen, and the projector
which SALVATORE has put back into working order. SPACCAFICO yells in excitement.
SPACCAFICO
Here you are! Quick, quick!! People
are waiting!
46
Meanwhile BOCCIA pedals his way swiftly through the countryside on his way to
the Cinema Paradiso...
FADE.
Now BOCCIA is on his way back to the old movie house. To carry out another
exchange of sacks containing the reels of film.
FADE.
Another race back to Cinema Paradiso. BOCCIA starts looking tired, his breath is
short. And daylight starts fading into the colours of sundown.
FADE.
The last fading light of sundown.-BOCCIA is pedalling once more back
to the old movie house. With the same sack tied to the parcel-rack. He
is exhausted. On his last legs. He slows down, then stops.
48
In the booth, the projector is turned off. SALVATORE looks nervously
out of the window...at the square. But not a sign of BOCCIA. A CARABINIERE
peers in through one of the holes.
CARABINIERE
What are we going to do, Toto? The
whole place here is up in arms.
They've been waiting more than a half
hour.
SALVATORE
What can I do?
50
SALVATORE has got himself a bicycle and is going off to look for
BOCCIA. He pedals fast, turns into the country short cut. Looks
around
not a sign of Boccia. By now it is dark. He sees a MAN in the window of
a farmhouse, calls out to him.
SALVATORE
Boccia! Boccia!
SALVATORE rides on. Now he's in the open country. All of a sudden he seems to
hear something. He stops. Pricks up his ears. It's a sort of moan - he can't
figure out if it's an animal or a man. He turns on the flashlight he has brought
along. Takes a closer look around.
Catches sight of a bicycle wheel on the ground behind a bush. That's where the
moan is coming from! He creeps over in alarm. Next to the bicycle he now catches
sight of the sack with the film. And the moaning gets louder.
SALVATORE
(Alarmed)
Boccia, what's wrong?
(He runs over to help his
friend. Behind the bush he
discovers BOCCIA humped up
between the legs of
TERESA, a prostitute. He
moves with all the fury
of his young years.
SALVATORE has never seen
people making love before
and is speechless.)
Damn you, what are you doing?
BOCCIA
(Shouting)
Oh, Christ, it's so good!!!
(And he goes on ramming it
home.)
TERESA
Hey, cut it out! Go away. Shoo!
With a confused look on his face, SALVATORE picks up the sack and walks away,
looking over his shoulder at the couple who go on tossing around more and more
frantically.
BOCCIA lets out a shriek of pleasure that rings through the countryside, as
SALVATORE pedals off like a madman and disappears into the trees.
52
The blade of a knife, clutched in a hardened hand. A blow. A cry of pain. A calf
falls like a dead weight to the ground...SALVATORE photographs the animal in
the throes of death with his 8mm movie camera. As well as the faces of the MEN
who now bleed and skin it quickly. In the vast slaughter-house, the voices of
the men and animals mingle together.
SALVATORE'S eye is quick to catch the most unexpected expressions of ordinary
people. His movie camera is always ready, like a hunter's rifle. Now he is
shooting...
A meeting in the square: the passionate reactions of the peasants listening to a
speaker who flails his arms around.
At school: the old SCHOOLMISTRESS sitting at her desk, sunk in God knows what
dreams, her eyes staring off into empty space, as a tear runs down her pale,
unhappy face, and the unknowing STUDENTS carry out their assignments.
At the railroad station: the nervous excitement of the people waiting on the
platforms. SALVATORE pans his camera on to TWO MEN fighting. But an arriving
train comes in between. Salvatore follows the train, pans along the cars. The
train stops.
-A door opens and the passengers climb out. Several TRADERS, a CARABINTERE, a
group of commuting STUDENTS, the TICKET-COLLECTOR, a distinguished looking
COUPLE and lastly, a GIRL who stops in the middle of the viewfinder. SALVATORE
is immediately attracted by her face. He goes on shooting without leaving it a
moment. He follows her through the lens. She is very beautiful, must be around
sixteen, a simple, sweet face, blue eyes. She is certainly the daughter of the
distinguished looking COUPLE who got off just before she did. The little family
moves off down the platform. Salvatore follows the girl's movements, as if
hypnotized. Now she passes by him, turns towards him for one moment, as if
trying to figure out where he is aiming that funny-looking gadget. SALVATORE
smiles at her, entranced.
55
The JANITOR is ringing the bell. In the courtyard, on the other side of
the gate, the STUDENTS prepare to enter. SALVATORE is with a group
of schoolmates, including BOCCIA. And they all stare, wide-eyed, at
the GIRL from the station. She has her books under her arm and is
walking by herself.
SALVATORE
You know that one there?
BOCCIA
She's new. Not bad though. Nice-
looking.
(SALVATORE has the look of
somebody seeking for an
idea, some way of picking
up a conversation with
her.)
SECOND STUDENT
Her father s the new bank director.
Loaded, luxury and easy living!
FIRST STUDENT
People who jerk off with a shirt so
they won't get their hands dirty.
(Laughs.)
All at once, BOCCIA and SALVATORE notice that the GIRL drops
her lunch without noticing as she is about to enter the school. They
fly off, swift as arrows. It's a chance not to be missed. BOCCIA is
the quicker, is already in the lead. SALVATORE gives an angry
gesture. A flash come into his eyes, the same flash he had as a little
boy when he finds the right way to hit home. He picks up his step,
trips BOCCIA and brings him to the ground. He pounces on him
and lets go with his fist. He starts running again. Picks the
bundle off the ground. Catches up with the GIRL from the
station, nervous and inexperienced, but polite.
SALVATORE
Look, you dropped this.
And he hands her her lunch with a smile. She recognizes him.
ELENA
Oh, thanks. I hadn't noticed...
She takes the bundle as SALVATORE touches her hand delicately.
SALVATORE
My name's Salvatore...And yours?
ELENA
(Smiling)
Elena. My name's Elena.
SALVATORE is very flustered. He feels as if all his blood were
throbbing in his head. He tries to say something else, but the words
catch in his throat.
SALVATORE
I...I...The other time at the
station.
BOCCIA suddenly grabs him by the collar and yanks him away. ELENA is frightened,
puts her hand over her eyes so as not to see.
A grey, windy day. It is opening-time and the shutters of the movie
house are being rolled up. SALVATORE is about to enter through the
small door of the spiral staircase, when in the distance he catches sight
of...
ELENA crossing a street with her books under her arm. She is alone.
SALVATORE doesn't stop to think twice, dashes off, runs through streets
full of dust, another square, turns the corner, but has lost sight of her.
He looks around in all directions
there she is! He starts running again.
And finally catches up with her, all out of breath, practically
speechless with emotion.
SALVATORE
Hi, Elena!
ELENA
Hi. Why are you running?
SALVATORE
No particular reason...
(He is entranced by her
eyes. He wants to tell her
all sorts of
things, say all the words
he has memorized a
thousand times. But
now he can't get them out.
His knees tremble. He does
his best to
overcome his confusion,
but all that comes out
is:)
Nice day, huh?
(A gust of wind envelops
them in a cloud of dust
and a clap of
thunder rends the air.
ELENA laughs, amused by
the blunder.)
ELENA
Yes, nice day.
(SALVATORE laughs too. He
gazes at her long hair
tossed by the wind. She
turns to leave.)
...I've got to go now. Bye-bye.
SALVATORE
Bye-bye, Elena.
(ELENA walks away. And
SALVATORE also turns to
leave. Only now is he
seized by disappointment,
regret at not having made
the best of the
opportunity. He talks to
himself.)
...What an idiot! What an idiot!
'Nice day'! Christ!!
Good Friday. ALFREDO comes out of his house, leaning on
SALVATORE's shoulder. They go off down the street, towards the
church. SALVATORE has finished recounting his misadventure.
ALFREDO
I told you, the blue-eyed ones are
the most difficult.
SALVATORE
But why? There must be some way to
make her understand!
ALFREDO
Don't think about it, Toto. Don't
even try. With feelings, there's
nothing to understand.
SALVATORE gives an angry gesture. This time ALFREDO'S words do not quiet his
frenzy, don't help him. He moves away from him a few steps.
ALFREDO stands there motionless in the middle of the road.
SALVATORE
Stop it! I've had enough of your
sermons! You act as if you created
the world!
(A bicycle streaks by
ALFREDO, who gives a
startled jump, as if it
were about to
run into him. He raises
his voice, panic-
stricken.)
ALFREDO
Heeey! Totooooo! Don't get pissed off
with me now! Come here! I don't
know where the fuck I have to go.
(A MAN on a bicycle almost
collides with ALFREDO.
SALVATORE fumes, goes over
to him listlessly. ALFREDO
puts his hand back on his
shoulder and they start
walking again. ALFREDO has
calmed down, but his voice
is determined.)
And the next time be careful how you
talk. Not to take credit away
from the Lord, but if I had created
the world, in all modesty, certain
things would have come out better.
But unfortunately such was not the
case.
SALVATORE
(Laughing)
You see, it s like I say. You always
have an answer for everything.
ALFREDO
I want to make you happy, Toto! I'm
going to tell you a story.
(And he squeezes
SALVATORE'S shoulder. It's
the signal for taking a
rest. They sit in a
doorway. ALFREDO starts
telling his story, and his
way of speaking is
hypnotic, magical. With
those eyes lost in empty
space, it's as if his
thoughts and his words
came in from some other
dimension, mysterious,
hidden...)
Once upon a time a king gave a feast
and there were all the most beautiful
princesses of the realm. Basta, one
of the guards, saw the king's
daughter: she was the loveliest of
all! And he immediately fell in love
with her. But what could a poor
soldier do compared with a king's
daughter?!...One day he managed
to meet her and told her he couldn't
live without her. The princess was so
struck by the depth of his feeling
that she said to the soldier
'If you
will wait a hundred days and a
hundred nights beneath my balcony,
then in the end I'll be yours.'
Christ, the soldier ran off there and
waited! One day, two days,
ten, twenty...Every night she looked
out of her window, but he never
budged. Come rain, wind, snow, never
budged! The birds shat on him and the
bees ate him alive! After ninety
nights he was gaunt and pale and
tears streamed from his eyes but he
couldn't hold them back. He didn't
even have the strength to sleep any
more. The princess kept watch...And
on the ninety-ninth night, the
soldier got up, picked up his chair
and left!
SALVATORE
No! You mean right at the end?
(SALVATORE is amazed,
dumbfounded; that ending
has made a deep
impression. They
start walking again.)
ALFREDO
That's right, Toto, right at the end?
And don't ask me what it means. If
you figure it out, let me know...
SALVATORE
I'll be damned'
Sweet poignant music accompanies SALVATORE's long waits beneath the window of
ELENA'S room... A warm early summer night. The last spectators wander off into
the streets. The VILLAGE IDIOT makes his rounds of the square.
SALVATORE is beneath her window. He waits. The shutters are open,
but not the windows with the curtains. ELENA peers at him through a
dark crack...
Fade to:
A rainy night. SALVATORE is back there again. Determined,
headstrong. A dog keeps him company, taking shelter under an
overhanging roof. The window is shut...
Fade to:
SALVATORE'S hand adds another check to an endless row of checks on
the calendar. A check a day...
Fade to:
Another night. Wind. The window is still shut. SALVATORE's eyes are
the eyes of a lovesick man prepared to face the hardest battles, just to
win, just to conquer his loved one. She peeks at him through the crack,
but he can't see her...
Fade to:
The paces of the calendar are covered with checks. Several months
have gone by. SALVATORE adds a check on the last page, on 30 December. Tomorrow
night will be...New Year's Eve. The streets are empty. Loud merry voices can be
heard coming from the houses. Old discarded objects hail down from balconies.
Firecrackers explode here and there. SALVATORE is there in the same old place,
as usual. The shutters are open, but not the windows, and all is darkness
inside. SALVATORE is wrapped in a large overcoat and stamps his feet to keep
warm...
More sounds of merrymaking, coming from ELENA's house. SALVATORE listens to it,
sees the shadows of her parents and relatives, maybe even hers, ready to
celebrate, welcome in the New Year. But further on, that window remains dark and
shut. SALVATORE gazes at it again.
There is a new look in his eyes, like a gleam of hope. Maybe it's the
specialness of that night, maybe it's the fire crackers, the festive atmosphere,
but something tells him that's going to be the right night. The night when
she'll open her window. In fact, a light suddenly goes on in the room.
SALVATORE'S eyes sparkle, have already taken on the hue of victory.
The window is pulled open, and his heart starts pounding like a drum. The music
reaches its climax. Two hands come out. SALVATORE shuts his eyes for a moment,
to hold back the flood of feeling. He opens them again and sees......The hands
reach out and take hold of the shutters and pull them shut. The light goes out.
It is midnight. An echoing voice does the countdown.
RADIO VOICE
Six, five, four, three, two, one,
zero! Happy New Year! Happy New Year!
And a roar of voices, shouts, explosions, fills the air. SALVATORE has remained
standing there immobile, speechless. Disappointed. Defeated.
65
But SALVATORE is not happy in these first few minutes of the New Year. He feels
hurt, humiliated, rejected. He walks off amidst the old discarded objects flying
down from the terraces. That was his last night. He's not showing up beneath
that balcony any more.
67
The happiest, most vivid moments SALVATORE and ELENA spend
together:
A country outing. They eat a lavish salad using the flat branches of the
prickly pear for plates.
A chase through an endless field of wheat.
In the projection booth. A cake with seventeen lighted candles.
SALVATORE and ELENA blow them out together. And then a kiss.
69
SALVATORE is driving an old beaten-up Balilla he bought from a
car-wrecker. ELENA sits beside him, having the time of her life. They
roar with laughter. The car jolts, moves by fits and starts, jarred by the
holes in the road, and besides SALVATORE is not such a hot driver. She
fondles him.
ELENA
(Ironically)
You have a great future as a driver.
If they don't arrest you first!!
SALVATORE
That's nothing to do with it, it's
the car that's still being run in...
He has barely finished the last sentence when the car gives a
sudden violent shudder. A sharp report. A cloud of white smoke issues from the
motor. And the Balilla stops dead in its tracks. ELENA and SALVATORE cannot
smother their wild laughter. They embrace.
ELENA
SO now how do we get home?
Cut to:
The two of them are standing beside the empty road, looking bored, as they have
already been waiting a long time for someone to go by, a car, a wagon. When all
at once a car comes around the bend, heading for town. SALVATORE and ELENA flag
it down.
The DRIVER slows down. The back door opens, a MAN gets out. An alarmed and
startled look comes over ELENA's face
that man is her FATHER. She sees him
stride over in a rage.
He has almost reached SALVATORE, who tries lo be polite, to make the best of the
situation.
SALVATORE
Hello, Dr Mendola...Hem...
ELENA buries her face in her hands, so as not to see...
70
The beach is almost deserted, dotted here and there with groups of bathers. The
carts and horses are scattered in the sand, near the Imperia Arena, where some
WORKMEN are putting on the finishing touches for the new opening. The wagon
arrives and SALVATORE and the USHER unload the projector.
74
A sultry evening. The jacklights of the octopus fishers twinkle on the
dark horizon. The sound-track of a comic film reverberates over the sea,
the laughter of the audience mingles with the sound of the shallow waves
breaking on the rocks. A group of LITTLE BOYS in a boat pulls away
from shore. They join some more boats standing still in the water, all of
them crammed with LITTLE BOYS all looking in the same direction...
towards the screen of the open-air movie at the water's edge. There is a
funny scene.
LITTLE BOYS
All seats are sold out! Free entrance
and payment on the way out!! Sssssh!!
And they guffaw noisily. Their laughter is echoed by more
laughter, in the distance...
...the laughter of the Arena audience, scattered among the
metal chairs. By dint of laughing, the people in one of the rows
of chairs tip over backwards. Screams, laughs, whistles.
The projection booth has a door at the back with stairs leading
down to the rocks. SALVATORE is sitting on the ground, bare
chested, tired and sticky with sweat. He is reading a letter from
ELENA. He is so engrossed the words can almost be read on his
face.
ELENA'S VOICE
(Off-screen)
Salvatore, my darling, here the days
never end. I find your name
everywhere if I read a book, do a
crossword puzzle, thumb through a
newspaper...You're always before my
eyes. Today I've got some rather bad
news. At the end of October we're
moving to the city where I'll attend
the University. It'll be hard to see
each other every day. But don't
worry, whenever I can get away I'll
always come running to you, to the
Cinema Paradiso.
On the Arena screen, with its potted plants and palm trees, a
very funny scene is being shown. The audience again bursts into
wild laughter. And the audience of LITTLE BOYS in the boats also laugh. One
of them, laughing himself to tears, loses his balance and falls
into the water. The others howl with laughter. A voice rises up
out of the carousel of boats.
URCHIN
Fuck me! I've caught an octopus! An
oooooctopus!
FADE
75
The August sun is blazing hot. People are forced to stay inside when the sirocco
blows. The streets are empty. And there is a strange silence. Nothing can be
heard except far in the distance, from somewhere in the country, the love song
of some carter...SALVATORE hears it too, stretched out on the floor of his
room, his eyes fixed on the ceiling where flies buzz around nervously. The
MAILMAN comes down the street on his bicycle, rides up to SALVATORE and hands
him a letter...Sitting in the shade of a white wall, SALVATORE reads the
letter. Next to him, the dog that kept him company at night, beneath ELENA's
window. He gazes up at him as if looking for news of her.
The Arena is crowded with sun-burnt faces. On screen, scenes from
Ulysses. On a shelf in the projection booth, there is an enormous pack of
letters. SALVATORE is worn out. The waiting has destroyed him. He looks
like a madman. As he winds up one of the parts of the film, he repeats
her name obsessively, under his breath.
SALVATORE
Elena...Elena...Elena...
Now he is sitting outside on the back steps, a few yards from the
sea. There is a breeze this evening, the waves are rather high and
the boats of 'gate-crashers' can be seen out in the water, rolling
fitfully but not dangerously. SALVATORE stretches out, gazes up
at the inky sky and talks to himself, just like a madman,
whispering...
SALVATORE
When will this shitty summer be over?
(Half shutting his eyes)
In a film it'd already be finished...
(Smiling)
...Fade-out and cut to a nice
thunderstorm!!! Huh? that'd be
perfect!
A clap of thunder explodes in the air. Loud, rumbling. SALVATORE'S eyes pop
open. The Arena audience looks up in alarm at the sky...The 'gate-crashers' in
the boats also look up and see a streak of lightning ushering in another clap of
thunder. One of those storms is building up that ruins late summer
nights. SALVATORE gives a contented smile as the cloudburst pours down
violently, suddenly... The Arena audience scatters with a howl and scurries
over to the overhanging roofs of the projection booth, to take shelter and to go
on watching the film despite the rain...
The LITTLE BOYS in the boats quickly pull tarpaulins over their
heads...But SALVATORE does not get up. He lets the rain fall on him,
goes on laughing, incredulous and stunned as if a real miracle had
taken place. And as he shuts his eyes and lifts his head up, to
catch more rain on his face, and gives himself up to that marvellous feeling of
joy, a mouth comes to rest passionately on his lips it is ELENA. SALVATORE opens
his eyes in utter amazement, it seems like a vision, another hallucination
created by the rain...Instead no, it is really her!
SALVATORE
Elena!...But when...
ELENA
I got back today. You can't imagine
the excuses I had to make up to be
here...
SALVATORE's lips interrupt her. It is an intense, a stupendous kiss. They've
probably never been so happy as they are at that moment. They cling to each
other as the rain goes on streaming over their bodies, mingling her hair with
his, binding them ever closer.
77
Autumn has arrived. In the streets, the PEASANTS prepare the barrels
for preserving the grape must. ALFREDO is sitting in front of the Cinema
Paradiso with SPACCAFICO and the USHER. It is a quiet moment, they chat, while
the humming of the projector and the sound track of the film can be heard
through the window of the booth. The MAILMAN stops and hands SPACCAFICO a folded
sheet of paper.
MAILMAN
Don Ciccio, this is for Toto. Give it
him...
(And he pedals off on his
bicycle.)
ALFREDO
What is it?
SPACCAFICO unfolds it, reads it, claps his hands on his head, in alarm.
SPACCAFICO
Holy blood of Judas! Now what am I
going to do??!
78
ELENA is waiting near the University. She paces nervously back and
forth. Glances at her watch. He's late. She looks around in all
directions and sees him at last. He comes running up to her. They
embrace...
ELENA
So what'd they say?
SALVATORE
The army says that, as a war orphan,
I don't have to serve in the
military, but nothing can be done.
It's a bureaucratic error. I have to
leave. Day after tomorrow morning.
They're sending me to Rome. But
they'll discharge me ten days later.
Let's go...
He takes her hand, turns to go to a caf. ELENA holds back. She has caught sight
of her FATHER's car approaching. ELENA turns to look and in a faint voice
reveals the reason for her nervousness.
ELENA
No, Salvatore. You'd better go. It's
my father.
SALVATORE
Good, this way we can finally talk.
I'll convince him this time.
ELENA
He won't be convinced, Salvatore. He
has other plans for me.
SALVATORE
Who?
ELENA
The son of one of his colleagues.
Don't act that way. We'll talk about
it later. Wait for me Thursday at the
Cinema Paradiso. I'll be coming with
the five o'clock bus.
SALVATORE looks with longing as ELENA drives away with her father.
ELENA gives him a meaningful look through the window. SALVATORE returns the
look, but stands there motionless, with a grim expression, like someone who
knows how to take the treacherous blows of life. The car drives off and with it
ELENA. Their eyes hang on the same thread. The thread of hope and now of fear.
79
The poster of Il Grido hangs on the billboard outside the theatre.
SPACCAFICO replaces 'THURSDAY' with a 'TODAY' sticker. The
CHARWOMAN is washing the floor of the lobby. SPACCAFICO shouts
up to SALVATORE, who is in the projectionist's booth. SPACCAFICIO
says that tomorrow he'll be leaving and today is his last day on the job,
and he's sorry.
SPACCAFICO
Toto, this is no film for the common
herd. One day'll be more than
enough...So tonight, please set up
tomorrow's film, so the projectionist
who is coming will find it ready.
SALVATORE
OK...
SPACCAFICO understands SALVATORE's sadness.
SPACCAFICO
Cheer up, Toto. I'll be here waiting
for you. No one's taking your job
away from you. Don't worry!
80
The bus has pulled into the square but among the people getting out
there is no sign of ELENA. SALVATORE stands nervously up in the window of the
projection booth, glances at his watch. It's already five-thirty and she hasn't
come. He checks the projector. The first part has just begun and the reel is
full of film.
The first part is now about to finish, the reel is almost empty, and ELENA still
isn't there. SALVATORE is extremely nervous, worried, mortified by his meeting
with her FATHER.
He sees ELENA's face pulling away in the car. Thinks back over her
terrible confession. He paces back and forth, as if he were in a prison cell,
thinking up solutions...The stair light finally goes on; there she is SALVATORE
dashes over and down the stairs to meet her. He comes down the final turn of the
spiral staircase and finds himself face to face with ALFREDO, who is slowly
making his way up with the help of his cane. SALVATORE freezes to the spot.
ALFREDO senses his disappointment.
ALFREDO
You weren't expecting me?
SALVATORE
(Nervously)
No, Alfredo, I was coming to help
you...
ALFREDO
(Smiling)
You were expecting her? Huh?
(SALVATORE doesn't answer.
He's too worried, too
upset. ALFREDO climbs
another step, whispering.)
...It's a nasty business waiting by
yourself. In company it's better.
No?...Then I'll leave.
As usual ALFREDO'S sweetness comforts SALVATORE, indeed suddenly gives him a
bold idea, one that quiets his nervousness. He puts a hand on ALFREDO'S
shoulder.
SALVATORE
Alfredo, I need your help!
8I
The Balilla speeds as fast as it can down the road to the city, where ELENA s
family has gone to live. SALVATORE drives along in a state of agitation. The
idea of having to leave without seeing ELENA is his obsession. An obsession he
refuses to accept...
SALVATORE has already reached the city. He slows down at the bus
terminus. Looks at the people waiting, but she is not there...
He asks several girls in front of the University. But they haven't seen
her...
He phones from a phone booth. But nobody answers. His self-control
is about to give way to desperation...
84
SALVATORE comes streaking up in front of her house. He screeches to a stop,
dashes out like greased lightning. His nerves are tense, a slight tremor runs
through his whole body. He rings the bell, but nobody answers. A MAN who lives
in the building opens the front door and comes out.
SALVATORE seizes the chance and climbs up to the third floor. He pounds on the
door furiously, almost cracking his knuckles. But all to no avail; there is
nobody at home. He shrieks, panic stricken.
SALVATORE
Open up! Open up! Elenaaa!
And in fact, there is somebody inside: ELENA's MOTHER. She sits there immobile,
without a word.
The pounding on the door reverberates in the room, but she does not budge,
determined to ignore that desperate message.
And SALVATORE is on his way home, defeated. Be drives as fast as he can. Be is
in a terrible state, can't figure out what's happened. Can't explain it. And
that's what hurts.
88
The Balilla screeches to a stop in front of the theatre. SALVATORE darts out and
runs to the stairs...
90
A wild frenetic sequence, set to the pace of military life...SALVATORE, in
uniform with close-cropped hair, answers his superior, shouts:
SALVATORE
Radio Operator Di Vita Salvatore!
Third Battalion, Ninth Company,
sir!!!
Target practice. SALVATORE fires all the shots in the cartridge, one after the
other...
A SECOND LIEUTENANT barks out a march rhythm in the blazing sun.
SECOND LIEUTENANT
One, two, one, two!! Attention! Left
march!
SALVATORE sneaks out of line, goes over and slips a letter into
the mailbox and hurries back to his place.
On one of the public phones in a square of Rome, SALVATORE is phoning ELENA.
Nobody answers. He slams down the receiver, as the line of SOLDIERS waits its
turn...
Night-time. A large plastic bag full of water. A thud. SALVATORE wakes up with a
start in a lake of ice water. He lets out a terrified shriek as the others
laugh, protected by the dark.
SALVATORE
Aaaaaaah! Heeeeeelp!!
In the large dormitory, the SERGEANT is handing out the mail. He
throws a pile of letters on SALVATORE'S bunk. They are his letters to ELENA,
stamped 'ADDRESS UNKNOWN'.
Mess duty. SALVATORE is washing Up, in a sea of water and grease.
He rimes a pan full of tomato sauce with a tap hose. A spurt of red water
splatters him in the face.
A training run. Another letter which SALVATORE drops into the mailbox...
A cold, rainy night. SALVATORE stands stiff as a poker in front of the
Ammunition depot. It is his first guard duty. Soaked to the skin, gazing wide-
eyed into empty space.
COLONEL'S office.
SALVATORE
(Aggressively)
Colonel, I was supposed to spend ten
days here and it's been about a year,
and I haven't ever gone borne. I'd
like a furlough, at least!
SALVATORE is in the guardhouse. A cold, dark, filthy cell. His nerves start to
give way. He bows his head in despair.
Hospital. SALVATORE is exhausted, run-down. The night-stand is jammed with
medicines. He lies in bed without moving, staring off into empty space, and
repeats obsessively in a low voice, as if talking to himself.
SALVATORE
Elena...Elena...Elena...
(He has touched the
extreme of suffering, a
young man who has
been denied love and
affection, his rights,
freedom. A NURSE comes
up.)
NURSE
Di Vita Salvatore, get ready, your
discharge has come through.
SALVATORE registers this information with his eyes and nods absently.
92
The bus disappears around the corner leaving SALVATORE standing there alone. It
is a blazing hot day. The sirocco wind blows the yellow dust in all directions.
The square is empty, the billboard in front of the closed movie house announces
a Western. SALVATORE puts his suitcase on the ground, looks around. Everything
exactly the same, immobile. Only one new feature
in the cafe there's a jukebox
playing 'Estate' sung by Milva.
SALVATORE turns towards the Cinema Paradiso. The projectionist is at the
window of the booth, smoking a cigarette. Who knows who he is, where he came
from. A hot flurry of dust. SALVATORE turns and sees a dog leaping around kim,
wagging its tail. It's the dog that kept him company during his nights beneath
the window. SALVATORE gives a start of joy, drops his suitcase and leans over to
stroke him. Then he hugs him, as if he were an old friend.
93
The sea is ruffled and the air is less sultry, easier to breathe.
SALVATORE and ALFREDO walk slowly along the waterfront. ALFREDO totters
slightly, holds on to SALVATORE, who is telling him something very funny.
SALVATORE
At the Christmas party the lieutenant
pinches a girl's ass. The girl turns
around: it's the daughter of the
commanding officer. The lieutenant is
scared to death and says: 'Miss, if
your heart is as hard as what I have
just touched, I'm done for!
And they roar with laughter. They look like two old school buddies telling each
other dirty jokes. They stop beside a low wall. ALFREDO knows that those laughs
are simply a way of uselessly dancing around the countless things that are
troubling SALVATORE. And he breaks the ice, while SALVATORE is still
laughing.
ALFREDO
(Seriously)
Did you ever see her again?
(SALVATORE'S laughter dies
away, taken off-guard as
he is. Then he lights a
cigarette.)
SALVATORE
No. And nobody knows where she is.
ALFREDO
It was probably meant to be like
this. Each of us has a star to
follow. So now what are you thinking
of doing?
It's a terrible question, and SALVATORE has no answer to it. In fact, would
rather not even talk about it. He changes his tone, as if he hadn't heard it,
laughs, trying again to ding to the funny jokes he heard during military
service.
SALVATORE
Listen to this one...The commander
says to the sergeant: 'You
remember that windmill that used to
be there?' 'Yes, sir, I remember the
mill's gone but the wind's still
there!'
(And he bursts into
nervous laughter. But this
time ALFREDO remains cold,
unmoved, does not laugh
with him. SALVATORE
gradually falls silent. He
doesn't know what to say.
For the first time in his
life, he doesn't know what
goal to aim for, doesn't
know what to do. The cloud
of smoke wreaths his
nervous face, now he seems
to relax, whispers:)
You remember the story of the soldier
and the princess?
(ALFREDO nods his head.)
SALVATORE
Now I understand why the soldier went
away just before the end. That's
right, just one more night and the
princess would have been his. But
she, also, could not have kept her
promise. And...that would have been
terrible, he would have died from it.
So instead, for ninety-nine nights at
least he had lived with the illusion
that she was there waiting for him...
(This time SALVATORE is
the one to explain
something to ALFREDO. And
ALFREDO realizes how
bitter his story is and,
above all, that the boy
standing there is no
longer a boy...)
ALFREDO
Do like the soldier, Toto! Go away!
This land is cursed.
(They are now leaning
against a boat on the
beach. ALFREDO goes on
whispering his words.)
When you're here every day you feel
like you're at the center
of the universe, it seems like
nothing ever changes. Then you go
away, one year, two...And when you
come back, everything's different.
The thread has broken. You don't
find those you were looking for, your
things no longer exist. Isn't that
the case?...You've got to go away a
long time, for many, many years,
before coming back and finding your
people again, the land where
you were born...But not now, it's
impossible. Now you're blinder than I
am.
(Intense words, straight
from the heart, and
SALVATORE is spellbound.
He whispers with a smile:)
SALVATORE
Who said that? Gary Cooper, James
Stewart, Henry Fonda? Huh?
(ALFREDO also gives a
gentle smile)
ALFREDO
No, Toto, nobody said it. I say it!
Life's not like you saw it in the
movies. Life...is harder.
(He lays his hand on
SALVATORE'S shoulder,
gives it a hard squeeze.)
Get out! Go back to Rome. You 're
young, the world is yours! And I'm
old...I don't want to hear you talk
any more, I want to hear talk about
you.
SALVATORE gives a shudder that runs through his very soul. The setting sun lies
colorless on the horizon.
95
Night. The square is empty. SALVATORE is sitting on the church steps.
His head in his hands. He has to make a decision leave or stay. And why?...
'What decision will he make?' is the question that keeps ALFREDO awake, in his
hot dark bedroom...
MARIA, his mother, also can't get to sleep. She knows, senses, that her son is
on the verge of an important turning-point. But what will he decide? What will
happen?...
Also LIA, his sister, feels a strange, heavy tension in the air. And
doesn't sleep. She's probably wondering where SALVATORE is at that
hour...
He's sitting on the ground. But even if he were to go to bed he wouldn't
sleep. He rubs his face with his hand. The church bell chimes four a.m...
ALMOST THIRTY YEARS LATER, another distant bell is chiming four a.m. And
SALVATORE is once again wide awake. He is thinking, with his hand on his face,
just like then. And the same decision to make: what to do? Stretched out beside
a sleeping WOMAN, he goes on staring at the window. Outside, the storm has
passed. The long memory has almost faded, only the sound of a train surfaces in
his mind...
96
It's the train that THIRTY YEARS EARLIER had pulled into the station
of his home town before leaving for Rome. SALVATORE hugs his
MOTHER and SISTER. The moment has come to say goodbye to
ALFREDO. The old man is deeply moved. A heart-rending trembling
comes into his husky voice.
ALFREDO
Don't come back any more, don't think
about us, don't turn round, don't
write, don't give in to nostalgia.
Forget us all. If you can't hear it
and come back, don't come looking for
me, I won't let you into the house,
you understand?
They clasp each other tightly, as if they knew they wouldn't be meeting
again...
SALVATORE
Thanks for all you've done for me.
ALFREDO
Whatever you do, love it like you
loved that projection booth of the
Paradiso when you were little...
(The train moves now.
Hands wave in the air,
drawing further and
further away. The PRIEST
has arrived at the last
moment and waves goodbye
from the distance.)
PRIEST
(Shouting)
Goodbye, TotooooooO!!! I got here too
late. What a shame!
The figure of ALFREDO and the others can no longer be distinguished. Only a
distant blur at the end of the track.
97
THIRTY YEARS LATER, a plane flies over Sicily. It lands on the
runway char seems to emerge from the sea and flatten out towards the slopes of
the dark mountains. Salvatore's face appears among the clouds reflected in one
of the plane windows. He has the tense look of the man who suddenly comes home
after the adventure of life has carried him afar, wandering the world, where he
has forgotten everything. From the plane window to another window...
98
...the window of the taxi-cab driving SALVATORE to his home town. The scenery
moving by on either side of the road summons up sweet memories. A lot of things
have changed, but the colors are still the same. The yellow running through the
entire landscape is unmistakable. And all those black birds perched in a row on
the guard-rail are crows.
The cab now approaches the outskirts of Giancaldo. But if the sign,
hadn't been there with the name on it, it could be an entirely different
place...
99
The house where SALVATORE'S MOTHER lives is also new, nearer the
sea.
The old lady is sitting alone in an armchair in the parlor, knitting a white
sweater. Her hands move very swiftly, almost mechanically.
The hands of a woman who is waiting. The front doorbell rings twice. MARIA stops
short. That is what she has been waiting for. She mumbles in excitement.
MARIA
It's Toto...I knew it...
And she scrambles to her feet, dropping her knitting in the chair, one needle
dangling over the edge. She hurries off, forgetting that she still has the ball
of white yarn in her apron pocket. And the yarn runs off the needles and the
knitting comes undone quickly as she moves about the house, goes down the stairs
to the front door.
There the yam stops and MARIA' s excited voice is heard.
MARIA 'S VOICE
(Off-screen)
Toto!...
SALVATORE'S VOICE (Off-screen)
How are you, Mamma?...
The camera now moves, discovering them through the parlor window, hugging each
other outside the front door. Under the curious eyes of an old bored dog.
100
...the coffin where his old blind friend rests for ever. The funeral
procession winds its way down the main street. At the intersections, ,
cars stop to let the black hearse pass by. People cross themselves. The old men
remove their hats. Store shutters are lowered. Then, when the procession has
passed by, the cars start up again, the old men put their hats back on, the
shutters are pulled up.
SALVATORE is in the front row with his MOTHER, next to ALFREDO'S WIDOW.
SIGNORA ANNA says in a whisper, her eyes fixed on the coffin.
ANNA
He would have been happy you came,
Toto. He always talked about you.
Always! Right to the end! He was
terribly fond of you...
(Tears come to her, she is
unable to say any more.
SALVATORE gives her a hug,
deeply touched by her
words.)
He left two things for you. Come see
me before you leave.
SALVATORE nods his head. He gazes intensely at the coffin covered with flowers
and is grieved as if he were ashamed never to have come to see the man who had
been like a father to him. But why had he forgotten him? Up in front, leading
the procession, he sees a young PRIEST with an altar boy beside him, and these
figures are also like chisels scraping the rust off his soul and bringing old
feelings to light again.
The procession reaches the square. The dark column stands etched in the dazzling
early-afternoon light. SIGNORA ANNA motions the driver and the procession comes
to a halt. It is ALFREDO'S last farewell to the place where he had spent the
best years of his life
the Cinema Paradiso. Everyone turns to look and
SALVATORE also turns, taken by surprise...It has fallen to pieces: doors and
windows boarded shut, crumbling walls, a piece of the sign dangling down, weeds
and mildew in the cracks and on the roof. The square has changed completely, is
unrecognizable. Buildings, stores, sign boards and lines of cars creeping at a
snail's pace in a deafening chorus of honking horns. And the central square has
turned motorcycles. SALVATORE turns slowly to look behind him, towards the small
crowd, and is entranced by the unexpected sight of faces that he recognizes at
once, despite the many years that have gone by:
the MAN AT THE BOX OFFICE, the
USHER who also served as bill-poster, the CHARWOMAN, the CARABINIERE SERGEANT,
and further on behind ROSA and ANGELO, the lovebirds who had met in the movie
house and then got married. They all have white hair. And they too have
recognized him, give little hello nods and gestures. Another face
he seems to recognize: why sure, it's SPACCAFICO, the owner. How old he's
become! He also looks up and his eyes meet SALVATORE'S. A hello nod.
SALVATORE makes his way over to him through the crowd. They shake hands
heartily, without a word, both touched. The procession starts up again.
SALVATORE
(Under his breath)
How long's it been shut?
SPACCAFICO
Six years ago this May. No one came
any more. You "know better than me,
Mr. Di Vita, the crisis, television,
videos. By now the movie business is
only a dream. The city's bought it
now to make a new parking lot. Next
Saturday they're
tearing it down...A pity!...
SALVATORE is disconcerted, irritated by that 'Mr. Di Vita'. Besides, finding
out that the movie house is to be torn down depresses him, after all, it's a
piece of his life...And all those curious faces staring at him.
SALVATORE
But why do you call me 'Mr. Di Vita'?
It didn't used to be that way...
SPACCAFICO
Well, it's hard to call an important
person by his first name. But if it
really matters to you, I'11 call
you...
(Smiling)
Toto!...
SALVATORE smiles at that. Meanwhile, the procession has reached the church.
SALVATORE excuses himself and goes over to the hearse. Old SPACCAFICO watches
him go, then says, almost to himself)
SPACCAFICO
Bless you, Toto.
The coffin is unloaded. SALVATORE has asked to be one of the
bearers into the church. As he moves off slowly with that weight
on his shoulder, somebody catches his eye on the other side of the sidewalk. An
old woman, sixty or seventy years old, with a plastic bag in her hand. She
crosses herself quickly. SALVATORE recognizes her
she was the one he made love
with for the first time. TERESA, the prostitute. The coffin is carried into the
church, followed by the little procession.
102
The little house is sunk in the darkness of evening and the ground floor
windows are lit up. The rustling of the sea can be heard. The family is having
supper. The table is set with the finest silver and the company china has been
brought out. LIA is also there with her husband, ALFIO, and their two children.
FILIPPO, fifteen, and SARA, thirteen. The television is on, but the sound has
been turned practically all the way down. SALVATORE'S presence arouses a special
excitement. The children look at their uncle with a certain awe, after all they
don't really know him.
SARA
(Playfully)
Uncle, the next time Granny comes to
Rome, I want to come along too. I
want to see what you do when you
work...
SALVATORE
(Smiling)
Fine. But I warn you, there isn't
much to see. I sell much more smoke
than fire...
The CHILDREN laugh. At the sight of them, LIA, ALFIO and MARIA also smile.
ALFIO
(To SALVATORE)
Watch out, don't get too familiar
with those two
(indicating the children)
they're worse than cannibals. They'll
take advantage.
Everybody laughs again. Even MARIA laughs a lot. SALVATORE looks at her; he had
never seen her laugh like that, amused, at peace.
FILIPPO
You leaving tomorrow, Uncle?
SALVATORE doesn't know what to say. He feels drunk. It has been a day of violent
upheavals, a series of almost overwhelming emotions and now he knows nothing
on
the one hand, he' d like to stay, let himself drift on the sweet tide of family
life, be completely carried off by the rolling waves of his own past: on the
other, he wishes he had never come. He forces himself to smile again.
SALVATORE
I don't know, Filippo. I don't
know...
They go on eating, but SALVATORE isn't very hungry. Re peers at LIA eating out
of the comer of his eye, feels deeply bound to her
she has a few white hairs
and light wrinkles line her face.
Then he looks at her husband, ALFIO, he's going bald but he tries to hide it by
combing over the little hair left. Who knows what their marriage is like, he
wonders. He looks back at LIA, and it's as if she sensed it, she looks up,
guesses the nature of his thoughts, imagines what he is trying to figure out, a
blush colors her cheeks and she smiles. SALVATORE returns a conniving smile.
The ringing of a phone. SARA starts to get up to go and answer it, hut MARIA
stops her with a glance of the eye.
MARIA
(To SALVATORE)
It must be for you...They've been
calling all afternoon. They wanted to
know if you're leaving this evening
or tomorrow...
Everyone turns to SALVATORE with questioning looks, making him feel even more
restless and undecided. The phone goes on ringing.
103
The TRAFFIC cops are trying to break the front door down with their
shoulders. Once, twice, and at last, the door flies open with a screech,
kicking up a cloud of dust. SALVATORE enters by himself...
104
The cafe in the square has been completely renovated. The CASHIER and BARMEN
have young, unfamiliar faces. SALVATORE holds out the receipt with a tip.
SALVATORE
A double whisky, please.
Several BOYS are sitting at the comer tables, talking about girls. Others stand
playing 'war games', shake around to the obsessive strains of same electronic
tune.
A man comes up to SALVATORE and asks for his autograph. Then SALVATORE turns to
the plate-glass window overlooking the main street, where the workers' club once
was. And like a flash, a shudder freezes him to the spot.... Two steps away
from
him, through the glass, a stunning vision, which casts him beyond time, chills
his blood: there before him is ELENA! But she is still young, young as she was
then! Sweet, luminous, alluring, exactly the way he saw her the first time at
the station.
She is waiting to go across the street with a bunch of books under her
arm...Have the passing years had no effect on her? Or is she an hallucination?
No! It's a dream! Or is he dead too, like ALFREDO? SALVATORE doesn't know how to
explain it. And he is suddenly seized by a feeling of panic. His glass drops to
the floor...As the GIRL walks off...
106
At the age of fifty-five, SALVATORE feels no scruples about wandering
the streets of his home town, spying from a distance on an eighteen- year-old
girl. There's nothing he can do about it. He stares at her with the amazement of
someone who discovers that miracles exist. Now he is nearer to her. How lovely
she is! It's her, no doubt about it! Exactly the same. Except she has a
different hair-do and is wearing different clothes:
ELENA didn't wear slacks.
The GIRL goes up to a parked motorcycle. She removes the padlock and fastens her
books to the rack. SALVATORE is standing there a few steps away, and without
stopping to think, moves a little closer, discreetly, politely.
SALVATORE
Excuse me, Miss...
(She turns to look at him,
indifferent, but friendly.
He looks at her wonderful
blue eyes.)
I'm so sorry, I thought you were
someone else.
GIRL
(Shrugging)
Well.
She has already started the motor of her bike. A flip of the accelerator and
off she goes, her hair flying in the wind.
SALVATORE follows her with his eyes until she disappears around the corner.
107
The HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS are coming out after school. Happy young faces. That
GIRL 's motorcycle can be seen in a rear-view mirror. SALVATORE is at the wheel
of the car ALFIO has lent him. He has obviously followed that motorcycle before.
He waits with an eagerness he thought he had long lost, a determination to
understand, to get to the bottom of the matter, which frightens him and at the
same time overwhelms him hopelessly.
And here she comes. She unlocks the padlock and prepares to speed off. SALVATORE
starts the motor and follows her a short distance away. The GIRL heads for the
new residential district on the outskirts.
109
But SALVATORE has not taken his MOTHER'S advice. Re has not left. Something
holds him there still, leads him to go on looking.
The GIRL'S motorcycle is parked in the courtyard beyond the gate of a small
house. He is studying it from inside the car parked in a corner of the small
square, near a caf. Re has been there some while, but is not nervous, waits
there with determination...
Several windows in the house are lit, but no one can be seen through
the curtains. Nothing but shadows pass by every now and then. Now the light in
one of the windows goes out, and the light on the stair goes on. The front door
opens and the GIRL comes out with a tall, sturdy- looking, elegantly dressed
GENTLEMAN around fifty.
They converse bur are too far away for their voices to be heard. SALVATORE
watches them come out the gate and climb into a car. They look like father and
daughter. The car now drives off and passes right by him. A gleam of light,
the reflection from the headlights, falls on the GENTLEMAN'S face. He recognizes
him at once, from the birthmark on his temple...
SALVATORE
(To himself)
Boccia!
His eyes flash, he's afraid he's understood. And now the craze to get to the
bottom of it all gnaws away at him. There is no turning back.
SALVATORE'S hands rifle through a phone directory. He is in the cafe, on the
other side of the glass door leading to the little square. His finger
runs down the column of names...
SALVATORE
(Mumbling)
His last name was Lo Meo, Vincenzo.
He has already put the token into the slot and dials the number, looking at the
two lit upstairs windows of that house, where the mystery of his life may be
hiding. SALVATORE hears the first ring, his heart in his throat...A shadow
appears in one of the windows. And a voice answers.
VOICE ON TELEPHONE
Hello?
(It's a woman's voice.
SALVATORE shuts his eyes,
is about to speak, but the
lump in his throat
silences him...)
VOICE ON TELEPHONE
Hello? Hello?
He still hesitates, can' t get a word out, as if he had lost his voice or
didn't know what to say. He hangs up. The shadow at the window also hangs up,
then disappears...
SALVATORE is at a loss, sits down at one of the rabies near the
phone in the almost empty cafe. At the far end, a group of five people watching
television.
BARMAN
You want something?
And he turns back to the television. SALVATORE lights a cigarette. He is
uncertain. Once again he has to lake an important decision
redial the number
and seek a face behind that shadow? Or forget the whole thing, the GIRL, BOCCIA,
the shadow, and go away? Yes, best go away. He gets up and leaves. He can be
seen through the window turning the comer. A pack of cigarettes and a lighter
lie on the table, he has forgotten them. And the lighted cigarette bums down in
the ashtray. A few moments have gone by. Footsteps, and a hand picks up the
lighter and the cigarettes. It is SALVATORE who now, on a sudden urge, slips
another token into the slot. The shadow reappears at the window. The same voice
as before.
VOICE ON TELEPHONE
Hello, who's speaking?
SALVATORE answers at last, keeping his eyes shut, whispering:
SALVATORE
I'd like to speak to Signora Elena...
VOICE ON TELEPHONE
Speaking. Who is it, please?
SALVATORE feels a terrible pang, continues:
SALVATORE
Salvatore.
Silence, charged with tension. Then the voice continues weakly, as if puzzled.
VOICE ON TELEPHONE
Salvatore...who?
He runs his hand over his forehead, his eyes, as if to soothe the turmoil he
feels inside.
SALVATORE
Di Vita. Salvatore Di Vita. Do you
remember?
(Another pause chilly,
heavy. SALVATORE opens his
eyes, looks at the window.
Her shadow is motionless,
as if cut out of
cardboard.)
Elena, I'm here, in the bar, across
the street from your house.
The shadow moves slowly, a hand pulls aside the curtain. It's a moment of heart-
rending emotion...She appears. And they see each other from a distance, after
thirty years, each of them with a phone receiver to their ear. But she is
somewhat in the dark, against the light, it's impossible to make out her
features. Her voice gives a sudden start, instantly controlled.
VOICE ON TELEPHONE
Certainly, I remember...
SALVATORE'S eyes glisten, try to pierce the distance and the darkness to get a
better look, but in vain.
SALVATORE
Elena. I'd like to see you...Let's
meet.
ELENA lets the curtain drop and goes back to being a shadow. She whispers the
words.
VOICE ON TELEPHONE
It's been so long. Why should we
meet? What good would it do?
SALVATORE
Please, don't say no.. .
But her voice is firm, unshakeable, even if quivering with emotion.
VOICE ON TELEPHONE
I'm old, Salvatore. And you too. It's
best not to meet. Goodbye.
The shadow hangs up, disappears. The light goes off.
112
The wind is stronger now, the streets and the square are empty. SALVATORE
is at the wheel of the car, driving aimlessly around the town. He has
rediscovered the woman who conditioned his whole life and they hadn't had the
courage to meet. An obsessive musical heat, fraught with rage, pours out of the
car radio.
113
SALVATORE stands motionless on the pier, facing the storm-tossed sea. He feels
relieved by the roar of the waves that dispels his bitter thoughts, blurs them,
but does not wipe out the look of suffering in his eyes. A flashing light seems
to approach behind his back. SALVATORE turns and is blinded by the headlights of
a car parked at the beginning of the pier. The splattering waves lend the scene
a hazy cast and diffuse the glare of the flashing headlights. Now the lights
move towards him. And SALVATORE also lakes a few timid steps forward...
They are close. The car has almost stopped. But it is impossible to make out the
person at the wheel who now reaches over to open the other door. A voice can be
barely heard over the raging sea. It is ELENA's voice.
ELENA
Salvatore!
SALVATORE approaches, accepting the invitation, enters the car and shuts the
door. The headlights go off and the car remains there suspended between the open
sea and the harbor with its rocking boats. Inside the car, not a word. Two dark
figures gaze at each other, unintelligible, as if the night were trying to
further delay that meeting. The glowing reflection of a wave higher than the
others now lights up their faces. ELENA was right, they are no longer the faces
of teenagers, but of people on in years who study each other, searching for a
truth. The howling of the wind and the crashing of the waves are louder, but
ELENA and SALVATORE /rear nothing, sit glued to their seats, fixed in the
endless gaze that envelops them. He is the first to break the silence in a faint
voice.
SALVATORE
How'd you know I'd be here?
ELENA
I don't know how many years have gone by, but some things about you I do
remember. There weren't many, places you could have gone. I looked around...
SALVATORE turns on the light of the rear-view mirror. Finally
they can see better. They look at each other a little ill at ease,
making the inevitable comparisons with the memory of their young faces.
SALVATORE carefully observes her graying hair, her blue eyes lined
with wrinkles, the somewhat faded beauty mark on her lip.
SALVATORE
You're still beautiful...
ELENA
Don't be silly...I'm old.
(She looks down troubled
by the way he has of
gazing into her eyes,
speaks almost mumbling her
words.)
Don't look at me like that, please.
(And she switches off the
light. But this time it is
less dark, things can be
seen.)
Why'd you come back?
SALVATORE
Alfredo died. Do you remember him?
ELENA
Of course I remember him. I'm sorry.
You were terribly fond of him.
A moment of silence. It's hard to find something to say.
SALVATORE
I saw your daughter. She's beautiful!
Who knows how many Salvatores
must be running after her...
ELENA
(Smiling)
One or two. Bur there're not all that
many Salvatores.
(SALVATORE also smiles,
but a puzzled smile as if
what she has said had
thrown him off-guard.)
I've got a son, too...he's older.
And you, do you have children?
SALVATORE
No. And I'm not married.
(ELENA sits there in
silence. A veil of sadness
clouds her eyes.
SALVATORE'S
too...)
Are you happy?
ELENA
All things considered, yes. Even if
it wasn't what I dreamt of then...
Again SALVATORE is thrown off-guard, as if the round key of
his enquiry had met with only square locks. She continues.
ELENA
My husband...you know him.
SALVATORE
Sure, sure! Boccia...
(With a bitter smile)
What's he do?
ELENA
Politics. He's the district
representative. We met at the
University in Pisa.
Then instinctively, in a shy voice, SALVATORE asks the question
that he probably wouldn't have asked a moment later.
SALVATORE
And...how come you never married
that guy from Tuscany?
The white foam of the waves splashes up over the wall of the pier, dashing
against the car windows. The shadow of the trickling water is superimposed on
the agony of their faces. ELENA hides her embarrassment beneath a faint but
haughty smile.
ELENA
I didn't want to...I had to fight
tooth and nail. But in the end I
won...
(SALVATORE is unable to
smile. It's as if the void
were growing and swelling
within. Thunder and
lightning shatter the
roaring of the wind and
sea, hut it does not rain.
Now her smile Jades away.)
At that time...I was waiting for
you...
There is no resentment in her words. She has said them fondly. With the serenity
of someone who has suffered greatly and then found a strong convincing way of
suffering no more. For SALVATORE, it's as if one of those thunderbolts had
pierced his heart. He leans over, gazing into her shining eyes.
SALVATORE
But I've never forgotten you, Elena!
ELENA
(Whispering)
Nor have I. Even though you
disappeared...
(SALVATORE is staggered,
feels as if he were
plunging into the void.
What she has said strikes
him as grotesque. ELENA
strokes his hair, as if to
restrain his sinking
heart, gives a sweet
smile.)
But what's the point of talking about
it? We risk being pathetic and
ridiculous.
(And she tries to change
the subject.)
You still live in Rome?
But SALVATORE ignores the question. He doesn't want to change the subject.
He feels that everything is crumbling inside him, the alibis and excuses he had
had to give himself in order to accept the end of their romance. And instead,
now the tables seem to have completely turned. Without realizing, he shouts
desperately, staring wildly at her and shaking her by the
shoulders.
SALVATORE
What do you mean, you were waiting
for me?! What are you saying?
(He controls himself at
once, continues, breathing
heavily.)
The last time we saw each other, we
made a date to meet at the Cinema
Paradiso. You remember? And you
didn't come, you disappeared without
leaving a trace, nothing! I'll tell
you how many years have gone by: more
than thirty!!!
Quiet rears stream down Elena's face, glisten with the reflections of the
lightning and the waves.
ELENA
I kept that date.
(SALVATORE laughs at the
absurdity of it. A
nervous, heartbroken
laugh, which slowly melts
away as she goes on to
say:)
But I was late...
(Tears continue to stream
out of her blue eyes, but
she tells her story in a
calm voice.)
I had a fight with my family. I tried
to convince them again that they
couldn't separate us. But it was
futile. They had decided to leave
Sicily once and for all. Which is
what we did. I didn't know what to do
any more, what to say. And I said
yes, I'd do whatever they wanted. In
return, my father promised to let me
see you one last time, to say
goodbye. But I hoped that by seeing
each other we could take advantage of
it and make a decision...I thought
we would run away together.
(She holds back her sobs.
Dries her tears with the
back of her hand, and
continues:)
My father drove me to the movie
theatre. But you weren't in the
projection booth. Only Alfredo...
Her voice continues over the scene of same thirty years before...
115
ELENA finishes telling her story. She heaves a Jeep sigh.
ELENA
But you disappeared all the same.
There is a haunted look in SALVATORE's eyes, he is searching his memory for
something he can't find, then suddenly sees, as if in a dream...his hand thirty
years before going through the routine gesture of hanging a receipt on the nail,
over the others, mechanically, without even looking...and he shuts his eyes as
if fearing the truth. Her last words have wounded him. He shakes his head, then
in a faint voice:
SALVATORE
Oh, how I looked for you, Elena!
You'll never know. I wrote,
telephoned, nothing. Nobody ever
answered. But I dreamt of you for
years! That's why I went away...and
never came back here.
(And his anguish breaks
free, dissolving into
quiet, almost childish
tears. ELENA is startled
by his reaction. She
caresses him,
passionately. They embrace
and remain like that, she
with her face buried in
his shoulder, he leaning
on hers with his tear-
filled eyes.)
Even as the years passed, in all the
women I met, I was only looking for
you. I had success it's true, but
there was always something missing...
(She is deeply moved, goes
on caressing him gently
until he calms down. The
car windows are steamed
up. The sea, the harbor,
the waves have
disappeared. Nothing
remains but the sound of
the storm. SALVATORE takes
her face between his
hands. They gaze at each
other, their faces
practically touching. He
murmurs:)
I'd never have imagined that all this
had to end because of the man who was
like a father to me. A crazy lunatic!
(She gives a faint smile.)
ELENA
He wasn't crazy. In the beginning I
was upset. I think I really hated
him. But then, with time, I
understood what he said...and your
silence too.
SALVATORE whispers one last dreadful revelation. And it's as if he had got a
terrible weight off his chest.
SALVATORE
But I never saw that note!
(He squints, as if to
stress the absurdity of
the idea.)
I must have covered it with my hand,
without realizing it, that's the only
explanation...
(But strangely enough,
ELENA is not surprised.)
ELENA
What difference does it make to find
an explanation? That's the way it
went. But Alfredo didn't betray you,
he was the only one who really
understood you. Salvatore, if you had
chosen to be with me, you'd have
never made your films. And that would
have been a pity! Because they're
wonderful, I've seen them all.
(Her eyes glitter with
joy, then she smiles,
almost ironically.)
But you shouldn't have gone and
changed your name. You should have
kept your own.
Tears stream down Salvatore's cheeks. He gives her a look of longing, of
desire.
ELENA embraces him. They kiss with heartrending tenderness, with the same
passion of their first kiss amidst the strips of film brushing their faces, so
many years ago. And they make love, clasped in the cramped quarters of the car,
like two teenagers. Passionate kisses, embraces, deep sighs. Their hair
damp with sweat, their hands clasping, their fingers interweaving. Then the
frenzy subsides into a deep, tumultuous pleasure, of immense loving and immense
grief...As outside the wind and the waves go on rating around that car which
seems suspended in empty space.)
119
ELENA stands near the window overlooking the little square, listening on the
phone to SALVATORE'S voice. She can see him through the transparent curtain
speaking on the phone down below in the caf.
ELENA
When are you leaving?
SALVATORE opens his eyes, tosses away his cigarette.
SALVATORE
This afternoon. Elena, in the future
maybe we could...
ELENA interrupts him, speaks softly, tenderly.
ELENA
No, Salvatore...there is no future.
There's only the past. Even meeting
last night was nothing but a dream, a
beautiful dream.
(Smiling)
We never did it when we were kids,
remember?
(Down in the cafe,
SALVATORE nods his head
slowly, desperately.)
Now that it's happened, I don't think
there could have been a better
ending.
(It's farewell. SALVATORE
glances one last time at
that window.)
SALVATORE
I'll never agree with you. Never,
Elena.
122
The square, unusually empty. There is no one, and no cars and motorcycles are
parked in the middle. The stores are shut. And there is an unreal silence. The
houses on the two streets on either side of the theatre are covered by enormous
pieces of gray canvas.
Only now does the camera discover in the distance, a crowd of curious onlookers
waiting in front of the movie house, kept at a safe distance by firemen and
policemen. Old SPACCAFICO is in the crowd. SALVATORE is also there. Be gazes at
the front of the old movie theatre...
123
...a deafening roar rends the air, accompanied by a surge of amazement in the
crowd. And the Cinema Paradiso suddenly collapses, folds inward and disappears
for ever in a gigantic cloud of white smoke that rises into the air, carried by
the wind towards the crowd...
125
SALVATORE's face, stiff, unmoving, his eyes fixed on those falling ruins, on
that season of his life turning into smoke and dust. Enveloped in the white
cloud, SPACCAFICO stands crying in silence.
Mice dart out of the ruins in terror, scamper nervously into the square. A group
of youngsters scream, amused and excited. Among them, ELENA'S DAUGHTER,
smiling... SALVATORE sees her joking with friends and pointing to some boys
chasing the mice across the square, hooting and laughing. As a white-haired OLD
TRAMP, filthy and covered in rags, makes his way through the crowd. There is an
empty look in his eyes and he repeats obsessively in a low voice:
VILLAGE IDIOT
The square's mine, the square's mine,
the square's mine...
SALVATORE recognizes him, it's the VILLAGE IDIOT, the one who used to close down
the square at night. Be watches him walk off, raving, with nobody even noticing.
The crowd now moves over to the huge empty space where the movie house once
stood. The murmuring voices are drowned out by the deafening roar of an
airplane. From the ruins of the Cinema Paradiso, fade to...
127
