STYGIAN DARKNESS
The suggestion of traveling through space. Suddenly a star
sparkles to life in the distance. Gives rise to another...
and another... until we're looking at a whole galaxy of stars.
No, not stars. LIGHTS. NEON LIGHTS. A throbbing skyline of
neon. LAS VEGAS, NEVADA. As seen from a descending aerial
shot. We PLUNGE down into her shimmering embrace... DISSOLVING
TO:
Cruising the Strip, taking in modern day Las Vegas. Sin City
gone theme park. Gigantic behemoths of pulsating neon: THE
MGM GRAND... EXCALIBUR... LUXOR... TREASURE ISLAND... passing
revamped faithfuls like CAESARS and THE DESERT INN...
...then heading DOWNTOWN to Fremont Street, where "old school"
Vegas makes its last stand. BINION'S HORSESHOE, THE FOUR
QUEENS, THE LAS VEGAS CLUB arid...
THE SHANGRI-LA HOTEL AND CASINO
One thing's for sure. This place ain't no bastard child of
Epcott Center. At least, not yet. Sure there's some flash
going on, but it's more class than overkill.
This is where the pro's come to savor a time forgotten. A
joint where every dealer knows your name. Where part of the
allure is the smell of moldy paneling and the tactile whisper
of worn felt. Where "funny business" doesn't just get you
blacklisted... It gets you dead.
Lets us enter.
Bernie's 1958 Buick Electra pulls into the parking lot of a
flea-bag motel. Next door to the motel, we see a convenience
store with the name, THE EZ MARK in pink glowing neon. It's
actually supposed to read: The EZ MARKET, but the last two
letters of "Market" have burned out.
Bernie weaves his way through the lot to his car. Arriving
at his Buick, he's startled to find Natalie leaning against
it. She holds up the $100 chip the drunk tipped her.
NATALIE
Buy you a drink?
Off of Bernie's surprised expression...
CUT TO:
Bernie accompanies them out to their car at a quick step.
Once out the door, the girl's contractions appear to have
subsided. Natalie walks with the girl to try and help.
PREGNANT GIRL
I'm OK now. False alarm. Thanks.
Bernie pulls Mikey aside.
BERNIE
Mikey? Is that...? You're not the...
MIKEY
(nods)
Bull's eye. One time. Obviously runs
in the family. I guess you're gonna
be a grandfather, Bernie.
They reach the couple's car. A rusted out 1955 Ford Fairlaine.
By the looks of it, they've been living out of it.
BERNIE
This you?
MIKEY
Hey, what the fuck, it runs. Anyways,
we gotta be somewhere...
BERNIE
How's your mom doing?
MIKEY
I'm gonna pretend like you give a
shit and tell you, she's getting by.
As long as she's wasted.
Bernie nods. He gazes past Mikey to the girl.
MIKEY
Name's Charlene, in case you were
wondering. Looks like she's carrying
a whole litter in there, don't it?
NATALIE
When was the last time you saw a
doctor?
Charlene sidles up alongside Mikey.
CHARLENE
This clinic in Jersey. Maybe six
months ago. I wasn't about to go
back after they treated me like
cattle. Just because I didn't have
no insurance. And those places,
they're crawling with T.B. from all
'em spies.
BERNIE
So, you're in town...?
MIKEY
Maybe a week or so. Got some business
to take care of.
BERNIE
If you want, stop by the Lucky Star
Motel. Give us a chance to catch up.
I'm on three to eleven shift at the
Shangri-la. I work the floor.
MIKEY
No shit. Well, how 'bout that? Yeah,
maybe I'll do that. We can play catch
up. For the kid's sake. Gotta split.
NATALIE
(to Charlene)
Take care.
Mikey helps Charlene into the front passenger seat. They
drive off. Natalie looks to Bernie. She's curious, but doesn't
ask. He appears thankful for that.
Bernie and Natalie returning from breakfast in Bernie's Buick.
Bernie can't find a parking spot. Natalie climbs out, heads
for the room.
Natalie arrives at the room. She's about to stab the key in
the lock, when she realizes the door is ajar. She hesitates
for a moment, then pushes it open...
Bernie's Buick pulls into the lot. He parks, heads for his
room.
Lou's black Oldsmobile pulls into the parking lot. Shelly
and the boys climb out, head for...
Natalie's sunning herself at the pool. The only other people
around are a middle-aged couple and a young boy.
Shelly (slipping on his leather gloves), followed by Lou and
Tony, strides purposefully up to Natalie -- no hellos, nothing --
just grabs her by the hair...
NATALIE
Hey! Ouch! What are you...?
He drags Natalie over to Bernie's room, kicks the door open,
shoves Natalie inside...
Bernie parks. Heads for his room. He's about to reach for
his key, when he realizes the door is slightly ajar. He pushes
his way into...
A NEON SIGN READS: "HOLY ROLLER WEDDING CHAPEL. OPEN 24
HOURS."
BOOM DOWN as Bernie carries Natalie out of the chapel, their
lips fused together.
Bernie pulls into the parking lot. Kills his lights.
Bernie throws open the doors, stumbles out. His limp seems
more pronounced. He wears a miserable expression.
At the car Bernie steps up. Opens the door, slides in behind
the wheel.
Bernie and Natalie staring into the barrel of the cop's
revolver. Natalie clutches Bernie's arm. Bernie nods. So
there you have it.
NATALIE
Oh Jesus, Bernie, I knew it. It was
too good to be true. Who were we
kidding?
COP
Get down on your knees. Both of you.
They look at him in shock. He gestures them to the ground
behind Bernie's car. We CUT TO a shot from the highway: just
the cop standing at the tail-end of Bernie's car, Natalie
and Bernie hidden from view.
ON BERNIE AND NATALIE
down on their knees. Bernie places his arm around Natalie,
pulls her close to him. Paralyzed with terror, she still
manages a bittersweet smile.
Bernie should be projecting fear, but there's nothing but
his overwhelming love for Natalie in his eyes. It's a two
way current.
This is their last moment together; everything that needs to
be said is being transmitted through a look. A look that
says: no regrets.
INTERCUT WITH:
The cop looms over Bernie and Natalie. Cocks his pistol.
Lowers the gun to the back of Bernie's head.
They appear oblivious to it. They're already in another place.
Sunning themselves in the Bahamas.
The cop squeezes back the trigger.
ON BERNIE AND NATALIE
still looking at each other. Suddenly the piercing shriek of
SCREECHING TIRES... followed by a reverberating, bone
crunching --
WHAM! -- and a GUNSHOT.
Bernie and Natalie still staring into each other's eyes, not
quite sure what's just transpired. Only that they're still
breathing. They look around, startled to see the tail lights
of a PICK-UP TRUCK about ten yards away. The cop, their would-
be assassin, rendered road kill beneath the wheels.
All this in the blink of an eye.
Natalie clutches Bernie's arm. Suppresses a hysterical, shock-
induced giggle. Bernie just looks dumbfounded. He staggers
to his feet, rushes over to the pick-up truck. The driver's
head is protruding through the shattered windshield.
Death-glazed eyes.
Bernie feels for the man's pulse just to be sure. Shakes his
head. We see a dozen Coors empties on the seat and floor of
the truck.
Natalie checks the cop. Likewise. Bernie comes over. They
regard each other breathlessly.
BERNIE
He was drunk. It was just freak
luck...
(catches himself...)
NATALIE
Don't give it a name, Bernie. It
scares me. All I know is, you're
still running hot and that's a good
thing. But we're only winners if we
keep going. No looking back.
BERNIE
Lady luck, Natalie. I'm calling it.
Lady luck. And we got it as long as
we're together. They can't touch us
now.
He kisses her furiously. Then drags her over to his car.
They climb in. Drive off.
Bernie's Buick racing into the sunrise. Racing toward the
dream. Bernie, eyes fixed on the road ahead, with the
contented smile of a man who has gambled on love -- and won.
His prize, resting her head against his shoulder.
The money, well, that ain't half bad as well. A smoky, trumpet
driven Chet Baker-like piece accentuates the triumphant mood
on the soundtrack, as we SUPERIMPOSE...
