We are moving through a small airfield full of parked light
planes. There are no people around. We move through the
cluster of planes toward a hangar on the edge of the field.
We are floating toward the modest gates of a small film
studio; the sign above the gates says 'CineTerra' in Art
Deco script.
Catherine stands at the railing of the balcony of the Ballard
apartment, which overlooks a busy expressway near the airport.
Her arms are spread wide as they were in the airplane hangar,
only now it is James, her husband, who is standing behind
her. They are both half naked, and he is inside her.
Their sex-making is disconnected, passionless, as though it
would disappear if they noticed it. An urgent, uninterrupted
flow of cars streams below them.
JAMES
Where were you?
CATHERINE
In the private aircraft hangar.
Anybody could have walked in.
JAMES
Did you come?
CATHERINE
No. What about your camera girl? Did
she come?
JAMES
We were interrupted. I had to go
back to the set...
Catherine turns toward James and pulls open her blouse,
exposing her left breast. She pulls James's face down and
presses her nipple against his cheek.
CATHERINE
Poor darling.
(pause)
What can I do about Karen? How can I
arrange to have her seduce me? She
desperately needs a conquest.
JAMES
I've been thinking about that, about
you and Karen.
James settles into his car -- a boring American four-door
sedan -- running through his control-panel routine like a
pilot before driving off. This time his routine ends with
the switching on of the windshield wipers because it has
begun to rain heavily.
Driving home from the studio, James hits a deep puddle at 60
miles an hour and suddenly finds himself heading into the
oncoming lane. The car hits the central reservation with a
thump and the offside tire explodes and spins off its rim.
The car hurtles across the reservation and, bouncing and
slamming down on its suspension, heads up the high-speed
exit ramp. Three sedans are barreling down the ramp toward
James.
Traffic is beginning to back up behind the accident and a
growing circle of spectators, some of them pedestrians, some
drivers who have left their own cars, begins to form.
The more adventurous members of the crowd paw hesitantly at
the seized doors of the two cars, afraid really to yank them
open in case the violence of that act might trigger some
further unnamed catastrophe.
Catherine and James travel home in the back seat of a taxi.
Learning against the rear window of the taxi, James finds
himself flinching with excitement toward the approaching
traffic streams, which now seem threatening and super-real.
Catherine watches him, aware that he is over-exhilarated,
very excited herself by his new sensitivity to the traffic.
James sits in a reclining chair on the balcony of his
apartment, looking down through the anodized balcony rails
at the neighborhood ten stories below.
Cars fill the suburban streets, choking the parking-lots of
the supermarkets, ramped on to the pavements. Two minor
accidents have caused a massive tail-back along the flyover
which crosses the entrance tunnel to the airport. In one of
them, a white laundry-van has bumped into the back of a sedan
filled with wedding guests.
James gazes raptly down at this immense motion sculpture,
this incomprehensible pinball machine.
Catherine comes on to the balcony, kneels down beside him,
begins to toy lovingly with the scars on his knees.
CATHERINE
Renata tells me you're going to rent
a car.
JAMES
I can't sit on this balcony forever.
I'm beginning to feel like a potted
plant.
CATHERINE
How can you drive? James... your
legs. You can barely walk.
JAMES
Is the traffic heavier now? There
seem to be three times as many cars
as there were before the accident.
CATHERINE
I've never really noticed. Is Renata
going with you?
JAMES
I thought she might come along.
Handling a car again might be more
tiring than I imagine.
CATHERINE
I'm amazed that she'll let you drive
her.
JAMES
You're not envious?
CATHERINE
Maybe I am a little.
(rising)
James, I've got to leave for the
office. Are you going to be all right?
The rented car slows and stops on the concrete verge a few
yards from the spot where James's crash took place.
James steps from the car, his right knee giving way after
the effort of driving. At his feet lies a litter of dead
leaves, cigarette cartons and small drifts of safety-glass
crystals.
A hundred yards behind them, a dusty old Lincoln is also
parked on the verge. The leather-jacketed driver watches
James through his mudspattered windshield, broad shoulders
hunched against the door pillar. As James crosses the road
the man picks up a camera fitted with a zoom lens and peers
at James through the eye-piece.
Spotting the man, Renata opens the car door for James.
RENATA
Who is that man? Is he a private
detective?
James gets back into the car.
James proudly shows off his new car to Catherine and Karen
at their offices at the airport. The car is identical to the
one he crashed.
James sits sideways in the driver's seat, door open, weirdly
jaunty.
CATHERINE
I can't believe you've done this.
KAREN
This is the exact same car as your
old one, isn't it?
CATHERINE
Yes, it is.
(to James)
Are you planning to have another car
crash?
JAMES
I'm not thinking about the crash at
all.
James is telling the truth. What he is thinking about is the
way that Karen's hip casually brushes against Catherine's
hip, without either woman seeming to be conscious of it.
James enters the gate of the police pound on foot, and shows
his pass to the guard at the gate. His pass now stamped, he
hesitates for a beat before he enters.
They are now passing the spot where their crash took place.
Intimidated by the aggressive traffic around him, James allows
the front wheel of the car to strike the curb of the central
reservation, throwing a tornado of dust and cigarette packs
on to the windshield.
We are looking at the words 'Little Bastard' written in black
script on silver metal, enamel on unpainted aluminum. We
pull back to reveal the entire metal object, which is a 1955
Porsche 550 Spyder race car. It is small and curvaceous, and
is being fussed over by several men in overalls. The number
'130' is painted on its hood and doors.
The Porsche sits on a country road, two-lane blacktop, heavily
wooded, lit by a series of movie lights. On the hills lining
the road a few rough wooden stands have been erected.
A blond man -- Vaughan -- stands near the rear of the Porsche,
a microphone in his hand. His voice floats eerily out of the
woods from speakers mounted on a series of pine trees.
VAUGHAN
(over speakers)
'Don't worry, that guy's gotta see
us!' These were the confident last
words of the brilliant young Hollywood
star James Dean as he piloted his
Porsche 550 Spyder race car toward a
date with death on a lonely stretch
of California two-lane blacktop,
Route 466. 'Don't worry, that guy's
gotta see us.' The year, 1955; the
day, September thirtieth; the time:
now.
Helen and James sit in a half-empty stand, looking down at
the road from amid the trees. Helen has her arm around James's
waist, her face touching his shoulder.
JAMES
It's strange -- I thought all this
would be far more popular.
Helen is consulting a yellow program sheet.
HELEN
The real thing is available free of
charge. Besides, it's not quite legal.
They can't advertise.
VAUGHAN
(over speakers)
The first star of our show is 'Little
Bastard', James Dean's racing Porsche.
He named it after himself, and had
his racing number, 130, painted on
it.
JAMES
Who is that? The announcer. Do I
know him?
HELEN
That's Vaughan. He talked to you at
the hospital.
JAMES
Oh, yes. I thought he was a medical
photographer, doing some sort of
accident research. He wanted every
conceivable detail about our crash.
HELEN
When I first met Vaughan, he was a
specialist in international
computerized traffic systems. I don't
know what he is now.
VAUGHAN
(over speakers)
The second star is stuntman and former
race driver -- Colin Seagrave, who
will drive our replica of James Dean's
car.
Seagrave, a coarse and burly man, wriggles his way behind
the wheel of the delicate little race car without
acknowledging the cheers of the crowd. He wears James Dean
clothes -- a red windbreaker, a white T-shirt, jeans, loafers,
prescription glasses with clip-on sunshades.
As he talks, Vaughan tours the phalanx of tripod-mounted
cameras to check their placement, and chats off-mike with
the pair of cameramen with hand-held cameras. He seems to be
more the director of the event, possibly the ringmaster,
than an actor in it.
VAUGHAN
(over speakers)
I myself shall play the role of James
Dean's racing mechanic, Rolf
Wtherich, sent over from the Porsche
factory in Zuffenhausen, Germany.
This mechanic was himself fated to
die in a car crash in Germany twenty-
six years later. And the third and
in some ways most important party,
the college student Donald Turnupseed,
played by movie stuntman Brett Trask.
Trask, slim and wiry, wearing loafers and a blazer, waves
his hand and gets into a replica of Turnupseed's two-tone,
black-and-white 1950 Ford sedan. He starts up the Ford, which
smokes badly, and drives it up the hill about 100 yards.
VAUGHAN
(over speakers)
Turnupseed was on his way back to
his home in Fresno for the weekend.
James Dean was on his way to an
automobile race in Salinas, a dusty
town in northern California. The two
would only meet for one moment, but
it was a moment that would create a
Hollywood legend.
At this point Vaughan, who is dressed in light-blue cotton
1950s mechanics' overalls, sees James and Helen in the thin
crowd and waves to them, as though they were long-standing
aficionados of crash spectacles. He doesn't wait to see if
they react, but immediately steps into the passenger side of
the Porsche, microphone still in hand.
VAUGHAN
(over speakers)
You'll notice that we are not wearing
helmets or safety padding of any
kind, and our cars are not equipped
with roll cages or seat-belts. We
depend solely on the skill of our
drivers for our safety, so that we
can bring you the ultimate in
authenticity. All right, here we go.
The fatal crash of James Dean!
Vaughan hands the microphone to a stills cameraman who also
functions as an assistant, and then sinks down into the silver
car.
Seagrave starts the Porsche, which settles quickly into a
husky idle. A few blips of the throttle, and then the Porsche
is reversed down to the edge of the lighted strip of road.
When the Porsche stops, the excited crowd goes quiet. An
assistant with a walkie-talkie kneels beside the silver car
on the driver's side, co-ordinating the start with his
opposite number standing next to the Ford over the hill.
There is a calculated pause before anything happens, and
then the Porsche spins its wheels and accelerates up the
hill.
From their vantage point in the stand, James and Helen can
clearly see that the Ford has also started and that the two
cars are headed toward each other, each in its respective
lane.
The Porsche accelerates hard, the Ford lumbers along at a
moderate pace, swaying clumsily on its soft springs.
As the cars approach each other, James notices a fresh
clearing at the side of the road at just about the point
where they seem likely to pass. Sure enough, when the cars
are about thirty yards apart, the Ford wanders over the center
line. As the Porsche approaches it, it seems to move back
into its own lane, but then suddenly swerves again as though
making a left turn.
The Porsche, in its turn, swerves to avoid the big American
car but they collide, the immense chrome grill punching into
the side of the fragile race car, crumpling it like a wad of
tin foil and shunting it unceremoniously off the road into
the clearing that has been prepared for it.
As the Porsche hobbles to a stop, Vaughan seems to stand up
on his seat and then throw himself out of the car, rolling
over what's left of the front hood on to the ground. Seagrave
remains slumped in the driver's seat. Vaughan lies still
where he lands, a few feet ahead of the crumpled nose of the
race car.
The door of the Ford opens and Trask stumbles out. He begins
to walk around in a dazed and agitated manner, and the crowd,
which has been buzzing, goes silent again. Trask walks away
from the crash site and disappears into the shadows at the
edge of the road.
There is no movement from either Seagrave or Vaughan. James
is not sure how to react, but Helen seems genuinely worried.
JAMES
Is that part of the act or are they
really hurt?
HELEN
I don't know. You can never be sure
with Vaughan. This is his show.
A stills cameraman runs out of nowhere and kneels beside the
apparently stricken Vaughan in the weeds at the side of the
road. It is not clear whether he is taking his picture or
ministering to him. It soon becomes clear that he has handed
him a radio microphone because Vaughan's low, melodramatic
growl now ripples out of the woods from the tree speakers.
VAUGHAN
(over speakers)
Rolf Wtherich was thrown from the
Porsche and spent a year in the
hospital recovering from his injuries.
Donald Turnupseed was found wandering
around in a daze, basically unhurt.
James Dean died of a broken neck and
became immortal.
Vaughan now leaps to his feet, hands raised in triumph.
Seagrave stirs behind the wheel, then raises his hands. Trask
emerges from the woods, waving to the now-supercharged crowd.
Seagrave tries to get out of the collapsed Porsche but is
jammed behind the wheel. Without missing a beat, Vaughan
dances over to the car and begins to haul Seagrave out of
his seat.
COLIN
Hold me. I'm dizzy. I can't stand
up.
Helen stands up as the crowd buzzes.
HELEN
I know that man, Seagrave, the stunt
driver. I think he's genuinely hurt.
Helen makes her way down the rickety grandstand steps toward
the road, and James follows her.
Just as James and Helen step on the road, six police cars,
lights flashing and sirens wailing, converge on the lit
stretch of road, three from each end. They screech to a halt
and dozens of cops pour out of the cars.
The crowd panics and streams down from the grandstand on to
the road. A loudspeaker mounted on one of the police cars
begins to blare.
POLICE
(over loudspeaker)
This is an illegal and unauthorized
automotive demonstration which is in
contravention of the Highway Traffic
Act. You are all liable to fines and
possible arrest and confinement...
Disperse at once! Disperse at once!
Because James and Helen are just in advance of the first
wave of spectators, they manage to link up with Vaughan as
he helps haul a still-groggy Seagrave off the road and into
the woods. Helen takes Seagrave's free arm.
HELEN
(to Vaughan)
What's the matter with Seagrave?
VAUGHAN
Hit his head, I think. His balance
is off.
The police spread out through the crowd, collaring people at
random before they are able to escape into the woods.
James and Helen help Vaughan hustle Seagrave through the
woods. The din of the roadway fades away behind them.
JAMES
Why are the police taking this all
so seriously?
VAUGHAN
It's not the police. It's the
Department of Transport. Internal
politics. It's a joke. They have no
idea who we really are.
In the gathering darkness of the woods, it is apparent that
James doesn't really know who they are either.
The Lincoln turns into the forecourt of Seagrave's garage
and showroom. His business, which has clearly seen better
days, is hot-rodding and customized cars. Behind the unwashed
glass of the showroom is a fiberglass replica of a 1930s
Brooklands racer, faded bunting stuffed into the seat.
They get out of the car, helping the woozy Seagrave through
the door at the side of the showroom, which leads to the
stairway up to the apartment above the garage.
James and Catherine set off for home in their own separate
cars. At times, they are within sight of each other and James
watches her microscopically, as though he didn't know her,
as though, perhaps, she isn't human.
At one point he sees her with her hands resting on the
steering wheel, her right index finger picking at an old
adhesive label on the windshield.
And then, abruptly, James is aware of the dented fender of
Vaughan's Lincoln only a few feet behind Catherine's sports
car.
Vaughan now surges past James, crowding along the roadway as
if waiting for Catherine to make a mistake. Startled,
Catherine takes refuge in front of an airline bus in the
nearside lane. Vaughan drives alongside the bus, using his
horn and lights to force the driver back, and again cuts in
behind Catherine.
James moves ahead along the center lane, shouting to Vaughan
as he passes him, but Vaughan is signalling to Catherine,
pumping his headlights at her rear fender.
Without thinking, Catherine pulls into the courtyard of a
filling station, forcing Vaughan into a heavy U-turn. Tires
screaming, he swings around the ornamental flower-bed with
its glazed pottery plants, but James blocks his way with his
own car.
Heart racing, Catherine sits still in her car among the fuel
pumps, her eyes flashing at Vaughan.
James steps from his car and walks across to Vaughan, who
watches James approach as if he had never seen him before,
scarred mouth working on a piece of gum as he gazes at the
aircrafts taking off from the airport.
JAMES
Vaughan, what the hell are you doing?
Are you trying to create your own
Famous Crash?
Vaughan hooks his gear lever into reverse.
VAUGHAN
It excited her, Ballard. Your wife,
Catherine. She enjoyed it. Ask her.
Vaughan reverses his car in a wide circle, almost running
down a passing pump attendant, and sets off across the early
afternoon traffic.
Helen's car is parked on the upper level of the airport car-
park, which is currently quite busy. Streams of traffic,
both pedestrian and vehicular, flow past the car.
James drives the Lincoln along the bizarrely lighted roads
that ring the airport. Vaughan and the whore are in the back
seat.
James walks out into the nearly deserted parking-lot to find
two cars parked in front of Vaughan's Lincoln: a police patrol
car and Catherine's white sports car.
One policeman is inspecting the Lincoln, peering through the
dusty windows, with Vaughan fidgeting beside him. The other
stands beside Catherine's car, questioning her.
James slows guiltily as both policemen begin to talk to
Vaughan. Catherine spots James and walks crisply over to
him.
CATHERINE
They're questioning Vaughan about an
accident near the airport. Some
pedestrian... they think he was run
over intentionally.
JAMES
Vaughan isn't interested in
pedestrians.
As if taking their cue from this, the policemen walk back to
their car. Vaughan watches them go, head raised like a
periscope.
CATHERINE
You'd better drive him. He's a bit
shaky. I'll follow in my car. Where
is yours?
JAMES
At home. I couldn't face all this
traffic.
CATHERINE
I'd better come with you, then. Are
you sure you can drive?
As Catherine and James walk toward Vaughan, he reaches into
the rear seat of his car and pulls out a white sweatshirt.
As he takes off his denim jacket, the falling light picks
out the scars on his naked abdomen and chest, a constellation
of white chips that circle his body from the left armpit
down to his crotch.
The Lincoln has entered an immense traffic jam, and brake-
lights flare in the evening air. Vaughan sits with one arm
out the passenger window. He slaps the door impatiently,
pounding the panel with his fist.
A police car speeds down the descent lane of a flyover,
headlights and roof-lamps flashing. Ahead, two policemen
steer the traffic from the nearside curb. Warning tripods
set up on the pavement flash a rhythmic 'Slow... Slow...
Accident... Accident...'
Eventually, they begin to edge past the accident site, which
is lit by a circle of police spotlights. Three vehicles -- a
taxi, a limousine and a small sports sedan -- have collided
where an on-ramp joins the main roadway. A crowd has gathered
on the sidewalks and on the pedestrian bridge that spans the
road.
Beside the taxi, its three passengers lie in a group, blankets
swathing their chests and legs. First-aid men work on the
driver, an elderly man who sits upright against the fender
of his car, face and clothes speckled with drops of blood.
The limousine's passengers still sit in the deep cabin of
their car, their identities sealed behind the starred internal
window.
As James pulls the Lincoln on to the verge, Vaughan runs
back to the pedestrian bridge, darting in and out of the
cars. James and Catherine get out of the car.
As James closes the door, he notices that the blood of one
of the accident victims has somehow been splashed on to the
door handle, and that some of it is now on his hand.
He finds a section of newspaper at the side of the road and
wipes the blood off his hand. When he looks up, he realizes
that Catherine has followed Vaughan back to the accident
site.
James walks back alone, eventually spotting them among the
throng of spectators, Catherine watching Vaughan's scarred
face intently, provocatively, as he photographs every aspect
of the accident.
There is a calmly festive and pervasive sexuality in the air
among the onlookers, and even a congregational feeling as
one group of engineers works on the crushed sports sedan,
prying at the metal roof which has been flattened on to the
heads of the occupants.
And now Vaughan poses an only slightly reluctant Catherine
against the backdrop of the stricken taxi as though she were
one of the shaken survivors of the accident.
When the roof of the sports sedan is levered up, the hair of
the driver, its only passenger, comes off with it as though
scalped, stuck to the roofliner with drying blood. But it's
soon apparent that it's not hair, but rather a cheap, tangled,
platinum blond wig.
Vaughan makes his way over to the sedan, intrigued by the
dangling 'scalp', which is almost phosphorescent in the road-
rescue work lights. Catherine trails obediently behind him,
like a harshly disciplined puppy.
When the body of the driver is exposed to the lights, the
effect is doubly grotesque, for not only is the driver dead
and partially crushed, but he is also a cross-dresser:
Seagrave, in Jayne Mansfield drag. His long, greasy hair is
tied up in a knot on his head, he is unshaven, his huge,
fake bosom is bloody and askew; his bloated, muscular body
strains against the pink 60s skirt and jacket, the blue suede
boots with high heels.
There is also a dead Chihuahua bitch inside the car with
Seagrave, which Vaughan manages to move with his foot until
a cop, outraged, shoos him away. The dog is stiff with rigor
mortis, obviously dead long before the crash.
An excited Vaughan has spotted James and now approaches him,
breathless.
VAUGHAN
It's Seagrave. He was worried that
we would never do Jayne Mansfield's
crash, now that the police were
cracking down. So he did it himself.
Vaughan turns back to look at the wreck again, almost
reverent. This is Seagrave's own solitary work of art.
VAUGHAN
(shakes his head)
The dog -- God, the dog is brilliant,
perfect. I wonder where he got it?
Now Vaughan turns to James, his face flushed, incandescent
with joy.
VAUGHAN
Come with me, James. I have to
document it.
Vaughan lopes off toward the Seagrave wreck.
But James hangs back, watching, as the passengers from the
taxi are carried on stretchers to an ambulance. The dead
chauffeur of the limousine lies with a blanket over his face,
while a doctor and two ambulance men climb into the rear
compartment.
Beyond them, Vaughan begins to snap away at every possible
aspect of Seagrave's wreck, beginning with the dead Chihuahua.
Some time later, as the crowd disperses and the traffic begins
to flow normally, James kneels beside the Lincoln and shows
Vaughan the blood on his door. Catherine sits in the back
seat.
JAMES
We must have driven through a pool
of blood. If the police stop you
again, they may impound the car while
they have the blood analyzed.
Vaughan kneels beside him and inspects the smears of blood.
VAUGHAN
You're right, Ballard. There's an
all-night car-wash in the airport
service area.
Vaughan rises and holds the door open for James, who sits
behind the wheel, expecting Vaughan to walk around the car
and sit beside him. Instead, Vaughan pulls open the rear
door and climbs in beside Catherine.
As they set off, Vaughan's camera lands on the front seat.
Near the airport, the Lincoln joins a line of cars waiting
their turn to pass through the automatic car-wash. In the
darkness, the three nylon rollers drum against the sides and
roof of a taxi parked in the washing station, water and soap
solution jetting from the metal gantries.
Fifty yards away, the two night attendants sit in their glass
cubicle beside the deserted fuel pumps, reading their comic
books and playing a radio.
Their car is alone in the washing bay. A voice rings out.
Cigarette in hand, one of the attendants stands in the wet
darkness, beckoning to James, who inserts his coins in the
pay slot and closes the window.
Water jets on to the car, clouding the windows and shutting
the trio into the interior.
James drives the Lincoln home along a deserted motorway.
The Lincoln pulls up at the Ballards' apartment building.
James and Catherine get out and stand in the darkness beside
the now-immaculate black car. Vaughan is still asleep in the
back. James takes Catherine's arm to steady her, holding her
bag in his hand.
As they walk toward the entrance, Vaughan gets up and climbs
unsteadily behind the steering wheel. Without looking back
at James and Catherine, he starts the engine and quietly
drives off.
James makes love to Gabrielle in the front seat of her small
invalid car, deliberately involving the complex hand controls
in the mechanics of their sex.
As he slips his hand around her right breast, he collides
with the strange geometry of the car's interior.
Unexpected controls jut from beneath the steering wheel. A
cluster of chromium treadles is fastened to a steel pivot
clamped to the steering column. An extension on the floor-
mounted gear lever rises laterally, giving way to a vertical
wing of chromium metal moulded into the reverse of a driver's
palm.
Amid this small forest of machinery, James explores
Gabrielle's new and strange body, feeling his way among the
braces and straps of her underwear, the unfamiliar planes of
her hips and legs, the unique culs-de-sac, odd declensions
of skin and musculature.
Gabrielle lies back. She lifts her left foot so that the leg
brace rests against his knee. In the inner surface of her
thigh the straps form marked depressions, troughs of reddened
skin hollowed out in the forms of buckles and clasps. James
unshackles the left leg brace and runs his fingers along the
hot, corrugated skin of the deep buckle groove.
The exposed portions of her body are joined together by the
loosened braces and straps. Through the fading afternoon
light the airplanes move across their heads along the east --
west runways of the airport. Gabrielle's hand moves across
his chest, opening his shirt, her fingers finding the small
scars below his collarbone, the imprint of the instrument
binnacle of his own crashed car. She runs the tip of her
tongue into each of the wound-scars on his chest and abdomen.
James exposes her breasts, feeling for the wound areas which
surround them. As he tries to enter her, she puts her hand
over his mouth.
GABRIELLE
Don't. Not there.
She spreads her left leg and exposes a deep, trench-like
wound-scar in her inner thigh. She directs his hand to this
neo-sex organ.
GABRIELLE
Do it there. And then after that, do
it here.
Gabrielle rotates over him so that he can see the wounds of
her right hip. James turns her back, pulls her thigh in
between his own thighs and enters her scar. With his mouth
fastened on the scar beneath her left breast, his tongue
exploring its sickle-shaped trough, he comes almost
immediately.
James drives up to the tattoo parlor, which is located in a
small mall. It is next to a small, private medical clinic,
and has the same antiseptic, untextured look of the ear,
nose and throat suite next door.
We see that the Lincoln sits in the shadow of an underpass
at the edge of an abandoned auto-wrecker's yard, looking
quite comfortable next to the stacks of crushed auto hulks
and piles of wheels and bumpers visible through the chain-
link fence.
James steps unsteadily from the Lincoln into the roadway,
followed for an instant by Vaughan's uncertain arm reaching
for him.
He moves away from the car, along the palisade to the
overgrown entrance of the wrecker's yard. Above him, the
cars on the motorway move like motorized wrecks.
Just outside the fence of the auto-wrecker's yard, a wreck,
its engine and wheels removed, sits on its axles. James opens
the door on its rusting hinges. A confetti of fragmented
glass covers the front passenger seat.
James gets in and sits there for a moment, crouched over the
mudstreaked instrument panel, his knees tightened against
his chest wall. A moment or two of this strangely comforting
foetal security, and then James unfolds and begins to get
back out of the car.
An engine starts with a roar. As James steps back into the
roadway he is briefly aware of a heavy black vehicle
accelerating toward him from the shadow of the overpass where
he and Vaughan embraced together. Its white-walled tires
tear through the broken beer bottles and cigarette packs in
the gutter, mount the narrow curb and hurtle on toward him.
Knowing that Vaughan will not stop, will kill him, James
presses himself against the concrete wall. The Lincoln swerves
after him, its right-hand fender striking the rear wheel
housing of the car James has just left. It swings away,
ripping the open passenger door from its hinges.
A column of exploding dust and torn newspaper rises into the
air as it slides sideways across the access road. The Lincoln
remounts the curb on the far side of the road, crushing a
ten-yard section of the wooden palisade.
James can see Vaughan flicking a look back, his hard eyes
calculating whether or not he can make a second pass at him.
The rear wheels regain their traction on the road surface
and the car swings away on to the motorway above.
James leans against the roof of the abandoned car. The
passenger door has been crushed into the front fender, the
deformed metal welded together by the impact.
James retches suddenly and emptily.
Shreds of torn paper eddy through the air around him, pasting
themselves at various points against the crushed door panel
and radiator hood.
James sits on the balcony of his apartment, watching the
sky. A single-engined airplane floats above the motorway, a
glass dragonfly carried by the sun. It seems to hang
motionless, the propeller rotating slowly like a toy
aircraft's. The light pours from its wings in a ceaseless
fountain.
Below it, the traffic moves sluggishly along the crowded
concrete lanes, the roofs of the vehicles forming a continuous
carapace of polished cellulose.
Suddenly, Catherine is behind him. She puts her hands on his
shoulders and he turns to her as though in a dream, gestures
toward the airplane.
JAMES
I thought that was you, up there.
CATHERINE
My last lesson's next week.
(pause)
James... my car...
James can see now that Catherine is frightened. He takes her
hand.
JAMES
What? Tell me.
Catherine's car sits in the driveway. The paintwork along
the left-hand side has been marked in some minor collision.
Catherine and James stand examining the mark soberly,
archeologists faced with a problematic hieroglyph.
CATHERINE
I wasn't driving. I'd left the car
in the parking-lot at the airport.
Could it have been deliberate?
JAMES
One of your suitors?
CATHERINE
One of my suitors.
He kneels down to examine the assault on her car.
He feels the abrasions on the left-hand door and body panels,
explores with his hand the deep trench that runs the full
length of the car from the crushed tail-light to the front
headlamp. The imprint of the other car's heavy front bumper
is clearly marked on the rear wheel guard.
James rises and takes Catherine's arm. He opens the passenger
door for her.
JAMES
It's Vaughan. He's courting you.
Let's go find him.
Catherine's car hurtles along a deserted six-lane highway.
They drive past stretches of road we have seen before: the
underpass near the wrecker's yard, several accident sites
and filling stations, etc.
One of the filling stations is near the airport. As they
cruise by it, they spot Vera Seagrave talking to a girl
attendant at the pumps.
James turns into the forecourt. Vera is dressed in a heavily
insulated leather jacket, as though she were about to leave
on an Antarctic expedition.
James calls to her from the car.
JAMES
Vera! Vera Seagrave!
At first she fails to recognize him. Her firm eyes cut across
him to Catherine's elegant figure, as if suspicious of her
cross-legged posture.
James gets out of the car and approaches Vera. He points to
the suitcases in the rear seat of Vera's car.
JAMES
Are you leaving, Vera? Listen, I'm
trying to find Vaughan.
Vera finishes with the girl and, still staring at Catherine,
steps into her car.
VERA
The police are after him. An American
serviceman was killed on the Northolt
overpass.
James puts his hand on the windshield, but she switches on
the windshield wipers, almost cutting the knuckle of his
wrist.
VERA
I was with him in the car at the
time.
Before James can stop her, she accelerates toward the exit
and turns into the fast evening traffic.
James gets back into Catherine's car.
JAMES
I think he'll be waiting for us at
the airport.
CATHERINE
James...
James turns the car into the traffic.
Vaughan is waiting for them at the airport flyover. He makes
no attempt to hide himself, pushing his heavy car into the
passing traffic stream.
Apparently uninterested in them, Vaughan lies against his
door sill, almost asleep at the wheel as he surges forward
when the lights change. His left hand drums across the rim
of the steering wheel as he swerves the Lincoln to and fro
across the road surface.
His face is fixed in a rigid mask as he cuts in and out of
the traffic lanes, surging ahead in the fast lane until he
is abreast of them and then sliding back behind them, allowing
other cars to cut between them and then taking up a watchful
position in the slow lane.
James can see that Vaughan's car has become even more battered
than it was before, scarred with many impact points, a rear
window broken, cracked headlamps, a body panel detached from
the off-side rear wheel housing, the front bumper hanging
from the chassis pinion, its rusting lower curvature touching
the ground as Vaughan corners.
When they slow down for a line of tankers, Vaughan makes his
move. He pulls up beside them and then cuts viciously across
three lanes of traffic to hit them broadside. The nose of
the Lincoln just nicks the tail of the light sports car,
which spins down the road.
The Lincoln keeps on going, its vast momentum taking it into
the guard rails of the exit ramp, and then over them.
Catherine and James slam spinning into the tail of a tanker
which has all but stopped. The traffic behind them has already
been slowing and thus easily avoids hitting the sports car
when it comes bouncing to a halt across two traffic lanes.
Catherine lies back, sprawled in her seat, eyes wide and
staring with fright, body rigid, bleeding from a small cut
on her cheekbone. James jumps out of the car, then immediately
slows with a limp. He continues, working his way doggedly
through the motionless cars to the edge of the ramp.
When he looks over the edge, James sees that Vaughan's Lincoln
has plunged into the top of an airline coach which was running
on the roadway below. With the Lincoln now inside it, the
coach then slewed sideways and crashed into several other
vehicles.
Wreckage, flames and blood are everywhere.
James's eyes are wide: not with horror, but with excitement.
Catherine and James stand at the gatehouse of the police
pound, collecting the gate key from the mustachioed, sharp-
eyed young officer there.
They then walk down the lines of seized and abandoned
vehicles. The pound is in darkness, lit only by the street-
lights reflected in the dented chromium.
They soon find Vaughan's crashed Lincoln, massive and
charismatic even here, even in death. James manages to wrench
open the passenger-side rear door enough to allow them both
to get inside.
Afterwards, they walk among the cars. The beams of small
headlamps cut across their knees. An open car has stopped
beside the gatehouse. Two women sit behind the windshield,
peering into the darkness.
A pause, and then the car moves forward, its driver turning
the wheel until the headlamps illuminate the remains of the
dismembered vehicle in which Vaughan died.
The woman in the passenger seat steps out and pauses briefly
by the gates. It is Helen Remington. When she helps the driver
out of the car, James and Catherine see that it is the
crippled Gabrielle, her leg shackles clacking as she and
Helen begin to walk toward Vaughan's car.
They stroll haltingly, arms around each other, like strange
lovers in a cemetery visiting a favorite mausoleum. At one
point, Helen kisses Gabrielle's hand, and it is obvious that
they have become lovers.
James and Catherine circle away from the couple and make
their way back to the gatehouse.
In the depths of the pound, Helen helps Gabrielle into the
Lincoln. In the darkness of the back seat, they embrace.
James stands talking to the officer at the gatehouse window,
holding Catherine's arm around his waist, pressing her fingers
against the muscles of his stomach.
JAMES
I'd like to register a claim for the
black 1963 Lincoln, the one that
came in a couple of days ago. Is
there a form I can fill out?
POUND OFFICER
There certainly is, but you'll have
to come back between 7:30 and 4:30
to get one. What's your attachment
to that thing?
JAMES
A close friend owned it.
POUND OFFICER
Well, it's got to be a total write-
off. I don't see what you could
possibly do with it.
We are close on the huge, battle-scarred grill of Vaughan's
Lincoln, now brought back to swaying, bellowing life.
The restoration of the Lincoln is as Vaughan would have wanted
it: just enough to get it running and nothing more, with
ugly brown primer slapped on to the replaced panels, and
whatever was cracked, scraped and crumpled still cracked,
scraped and crumpled -- a mobile accident rolling on badly
misaligned wheels.
Through the Lincoln's insect- and oil-smeared windshield we
can see the unmistakable shape of Catherine's white sports
car, itself winding its way aggressively through the braids
of vehicles.
The Lincoln lurches out on to the narrow emergency lane and
takes off after Catherine's car, scraping the low concrete
wall as it wallows from side to side, clipping the corner of
a truck that has made the lane too narrow.
Around the decreasing-radius curve of the utility road, the
more nimble sports car stretches out the distance between it
and the Lincoln, but once the road uncurls, the booming V-8
allows the American car to gobble up the ground until it is
nose to tail with Catherine's car.
James begins to bump the tail of the sports car, breaking
off the accelerator for a beat to let the white car -- which
looks especially fragile and delicate by comparison -- get
away a bit, then charging back until it makes contact.
Now the road ahead curves again, and just as Catherine enters
the curve, James gives her a seriously violent jolt. The
rear of her car slews off on to the grass verge, almost comes
back, then loses traction completely.
Catherine's car spins backwards off the road, then rolls
unceremoniously, almost gently, down a small grade, shedding
bits and pieces, until it finally flops to a halt on its
side in front of a cement culvert.
James jumps out of the car and stands for a beat at the edge
of the road on the wet grass, savoring the tableau below
him.
Catherine lies sprawled, half out of the car, her tight black
dress hiked up over her hips, one arm across her face as
though shielding her eyes from the sight of her ruined,
lightly smoking sports car.
James eagerly makes his way down the wet grass of the hill
toward Catherine. As he approaches her, she begins to move,
stretching her arms behind her head, as though awakening
from a deep sleep. He can now see that her dress is wet,
soaked by the dirty water trickling out of the culvert and
now dammed up by her torso.
James kneels close to Catherine.
JAMES
Catherine. Are you all right? Are
you hurt?
Catherine's eyes flutter open. Her mascara is smeared, as
though she has been crying, and there is wetness at the
corners of her eyes. Her upper lip is bruised and beginning
to purple, and there is blood on her forehead and at the
corner of her mouth.
CATHERINE
James, I... I don't know... I think
I'm all right...
James slips her panties down her legs, leaving them around
her left ankle when they snag on the one high-heeled shoe
she still has on. He gently rotates her on to her right hip,
undoes his fly, then lies down on the concrete with her,
ignoring the light, muddy stream which now begins to soak
the thigh of his trousers. Kissing the back of her neck, he
enters her from behind.
JAMES
Maybe the next one, darling... Maybe
the next one...
We pull up and away from the couple on the ground until we
lose them behind the overturned sports car, then rise and
pivot until we are once again watching the frantic lanes of
traffic hurtling by obliviously only a few meters away.
THE END
Crash
Writers : J.G. BallardDavid Cronenberg
Genres : DramaThrillerRomance
User Comments
Back to IMSDb