A heavy mist hangs before us - endless and impenetrable. And
out of that primordial fog a CROW materializes, flying toward
the camera in slow motion.
SARAH (O.S.)
I believe there's a place where the restless souls wander. Burdened
by the weight of their own sadness, they cannot enter Heaven...
Presently a second shape materializes - a FIGURE ON HORSEBACK.
A warrior whose baleful eyes shine behind the familiar irony
mask war paint.
SARAH (O.S.)
And so they wait, trapped between our world and the next, endlessly
searching for a way to rid themselves of their pain - in the
hopes that somehow, some day...
The figure on horseback sweeps past us, disappearing once again
into the mists of time.
SARAH (V.O.)
... they will be reunited with the ones they love.
DISSOLVE TO:
Present day. The Crow settles on a shipping container, tilts
its head, watching...
SUPER TITLE:
"CITY OF ANGELS - OCTOBER 29TH - LA NOCHE DE SAN LUCAS"
CLOSE ON A PAIR OF HANDS tearing open a tiny glassine envelope
filled with powder - our drug du jour - Trinity. The face of
the envelope has been stamped with an image - a cartoon imp with
a shit-eating gring giving us the thumbs-up sign.
A MAN lowers his face to the envelope, snorts up the powder.
The man discards the glassine envelope...
FOLLOWING THE ENVELOPE
as it flutters to the ground, landing "imp-side" up. Let the
rush begin.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL
Garbage-poisoned waters wreathed in fog. Although once part of
a thriving shipping industry, decades of decline have seen these
docks become a hellish dumping ground. Case in point:
A FATHER AND HIS YOUNG SON
are kneeling next to one another at the end of a pier, their
arms linked together, then tied behind their backs. DANNY CORVEN
(8) is quietly sobbing. ASHE (late 20s), tries to calm the frightened
boy.
DANNY
I'm sorry, Dad...I'm sorry... I didn't mean to look...
ASHE
It's okay, Danny. It's okay...
NEMO (O.S.)
Lights...
A bright light comes on. Ashe and Danny turn their heads to avoid
the glare.
NEMO (O.S.)
...camera...
CLOSE ON
A camcorder lens as it auto-focuses, bringing Danny's distorted
face into view via the lens' reflection.
NEMO (O.S.)
...action.
CAMERA FINDS Ashe and Danny's executioners, CURVE, KALI, SPIDER
MONKEY, and NEMO.
NEMO, a post-modern sleaze-hound, circles Danny and Ashe with
a camcorder. He Pats Ashe's face.
NEMO
Make-up.
SPIDER MONKEY, lean and gangly, crouches next to Ashe, holding
a marigold in his hand.
SPIDER MONKEY
Flowers for the dead, Senor?
CAMERA POV (CLOSE ON ASHE'S EYE)
Ashe stares directly into the camera.
SPIDER MONKEY
No? Suite yourself, then.
Spider Monkey tucks the flower behind his ear. Danny is praying
now, MUMBLING a Catholic School litany.
SPIDER MONKEY
You're wasting your breath, angelito. Nobody up there's listening.
WHOOSH!
We cut to an extreme high-angle shot - God's omniscient POV,
perhaps.
CURVE
leans up against his motorcycle a few yards away - big, burly,
shaved head, a ciggie hanging from his lips. He's got a custom
paint-job on his pearl drop gas tank - a buxom blonde doing the
"wild thing" with the Grim Reaper. Curve's also the one who just
dusted himself
CURVE
(hyped on drugs)
Let's get this over with. Judah's waiting.
Kali, a cold-eyed heavy-metal femme with a killer's casual stoicism,
is methodically loading bullets into her revolver. She's taking
her own sweet time, in defiance of Curve. There's a tension between
them. Finally, she flicks her wrist, snaps the revolver shut.
Kali walks up to them...
DANNY
I'm scared, Dad.
ASHE
I know...
Ashe turns to his executioners, pleading with them...
ASHE
Listen to me, please. He's just a kid. Let him go. He can't hurt
you. He doesn't even know who you are...
...and puts a bullet through Danny's chest. Ashe SCREAMS.
ASHE
NO!!!
Danny's body slumps forward, dragging Ashe down next to him.
Ashe stares into his son's lifeless eyes.
Curve saunters over, stares down at Ashe, flicks his cigarette
butt off into the water.
CURVE
Nothing personal, sport. Guess you were just in the wrong place
at the wrong time.
BANG! BANG! BANG! Curve FIRES a gun into Ashe's back. As Ashe
crumples...
CURVE
Dump 'em. Let's get this cluster-fuck on the road.
CURVE
motions to Kali and Spider Monkey. Together, the three of them
heave Ashe and Danny into the ocean.
CURVE
Bon voyage, shitheads.
Ashe and Danny sink down into the murky underworld, taking their
place amongst a thousand other deep-sixed dreams.
ASHE'S POV
falling further and further away from the light of the surface
world. Bit by bit, Ashe's struggles subside. All we hear now
is an ever-slowing HEARTBEAT. Darkness begins to close in around
us, womblike, peaceful...
...AND OUT OF THE DARKNESS,
something takes shape - a CROW. Winging its way from Ashe's dream-like
death up through watery depths into a smog-bound cityscape...
The Crow flies over a bridge with spans the Styx - the city's
polluted, man-made river.
THE CROW
rides the thermals above an urban sprawl riven by fires, floods,
and earthquakes. Smog hangs in the air like an army of ever-present
ghosts. We pass over a roof where someone has painted a smart-ass
welcome mat for the benefit of anyone flying overhead - "GO BACK".
Nevertheless, we continue on.
SARAH (V.O.)
They say that time cancels pain. I don't know about that. Eight
years ago I lost two of my best friends. Two thousand miles later
I find I'm still living in the past...
THE CROW
sweeps down into man-made caverns of pigeon-shit concrete and
grimy glass. Through the bird's eyes we glimpse the city's silent
HOMELESS. Automobile hulks littering the streets like insect
husks. The shifting searchlights of police helicopters...
WE PASS OVER SARAH'S ROOFTOP
The Crow circles downward...
SARAH (V.O.)
Every night when I close my eyes the dreams come. That's how
the dead talk to us, I guess. In the dark, when our souls are
off wandering...
Ashe's death. Plunging into the icy waters, down into darkness.
Just as suddenly we are back in...
An ill-wind kicks up trash and grit. Sarah glances down. Dozens
of the glassine imp envelopes swirl around Sarah's feet like
confetti. One of the envelopes has stuck to her heel. As she
peels it off, she catches sight of...
A PALE FACE
in a shadowed entryway. It's a TEENAGED GIRL (16), strung out
on drugs. The girl cowers in a narrow stairway, hugging herself,
shivering from withdrawal.
Sarah draws closer, notices some of the grinning imp drug sachets
at the girl's feet. The girl shies away, frightened, suspicious.
SARAH
(DRYLY)
Nice place you've got here.
GRACE
(a muttered whisper)
No place else to go.
Sarah can't help but recognize a part of herself in this lost
soul.
SARAH
Gotta name?
GRACE
Grace. So what?
SARAH
Listen, Grace, how does some hot coffee sound? Maybe a little
food?
GRACE
What do you want?
SARAH
Nothing. Guess you just remind me of someone I used to know.
After a moment, Grace offers a reluctant nod. Sarah helps her
from the entryway, into the warmth of the dying light. Grace
blinks, shields her eyes.
As they walk away down the street, camera rises up to include...
THE CROW
perched on a nearby rooftop, watching them.
CUT TO:
the Gargoyle is an usassuming ink shop - the sole oasis of light
in an otherwise desolated block populated by derelict warehouse
buildings. Flickering neon BUZZES in the window.
Nearby is a battered road sign - "END CITY LIMITS". Someone has
spray-painted "OF THE FUCKING WORLD" over "city limits". In the
distance, the bridge of the River Styx rises through the mist
like a skeletal dinosaur.
SUPER TITLE:
"OCTOBER 30TH - LA NOCHE DE LA SANTA MUERTE"
Sarah, still clutching Curve's gun, hurries to her Galaxy 500
which is parked along the nearby train tracks.
Sarah rushes out of her car, screaming at the bird.
SARAH
Get out of here! Go!!!
Sarah FIRES a wild shot into the sky. The Crow files off into
the night. Sarah collapses against the hood of her Galaxy and
starts to cry.
CUT TO:
The Crow soars away from the Gargoyle, toward the beckoning lights
of Downtown. In the distance, a flashing "JESUS SAVES" sign draws
our attention to a monolithic tower.
The Crow makes its way towards the decaying tower, which is crowned
by a weather-worn campanile. The campanile is a complex arabesque
of rusted iron scrollwork, like something Antonio Gaudi conjured
up from an art nouveau fever-dream.
Just as the Crow is about to reach the campanile, it banks away.
We, however, continue to rush onward, right through one of the
dark openings in the scrollwork...
Air bubbles escaping, blood. Ashe is drowning again, the orbs
of his eyes bulging outwards. Over this we hear a WOMAN'S SCREAM
and...
We descend towards the empty docks, pushing out into the mist-shrouded
water, then down into the ocean's murky depths.
PRESENTLY THE BODIES OF ASHE AND DANNY
come into view, caught up in a tangle of razor wire.
CLOSE ON ASHE'S FACE
Unaltered by the ravages of time. His eyelids flicker, dreaming.
A SINGLE TEAR escapes, flowing down his cheek. We push on INSIDE
HIS HEAD...
We see brief MEMORY FLASHES of he and Danny together...
The headlights of Sarah's Galaxy cut through the fog. She pulls
up just in time to see the Crow disappearing into the mist which
cloaks the bridge. Sarah follows, trying to keep up with the
bird.
CUT TO:
Ashe's struggles become more and more violent. He thrashes, churning
up a cloud of bubbles. We are intercutting quickly now, between
Ashe's turmoil and...
CUT TO:
Sarah reaches the pier where Ashe and Danny were executed. She
climbs from her car...
THE CROW
flies on ahead, landing atop one of the piles, staring down into
the water.
AND AS SARAH
starts toward the bird we...
CUT TO:
Ashe tears his hands free, clawing his body away from the barbwire,
swimming to the surface in a storm of bubbles...
FLASHBACKS
of subjective POVs. The killers walking down the jetty, marching
Ashe and Danny to their deaths and...
We are beneath the jetty now in the present, looking up through
the slats as a FIGURE (Sarah?) makes its way to the water...
Camera CRANES UP from beneath the jetty to reveal Sarah standing
there in silhouette...
Ashe is propelled towards the surface.
Ashe suddenly bursts from the sea with his arms outstretched.
A hellish Venus on the half-shell. Gasping, full of terror and
rage. He lets loose a TORTURED HOWL.
ASHE
digs his fingers into the wood-rot pulp of the pilings and claws
his way up to the jetty. He collapses down onto the wooded slats.
ASHE
crouches before us, his face hidden from view. He reaches out
his hand, touching an unmistakable BLOOD STAIN... Danny's blood
stain. This triggers more painful memories...
Images from Ashe and Danny's execution assault him. BANG!!! Kali
FIRING her gun. Ashe SCREAMING. Danny's body slumping forward
like a marionette whose strings have been severed.
CUT TO:
Ashe lifts his head, WAILING. He's covered from head to toe in
ocean-bottom silt. Blood from the razor-wire wounds has smeared
across his face in patterns which eerily recall the Crow make-up.
Strips of the wire still cling to his arms and chest, the barbs
buried deep in his flesh.
Reliving the violent moment is more than his mind can bear. Ashe's
eyes roll up into his head. The world spins around him. But even
as the lights are going out, Ashe glimpses...
A DARK FIGURE
standing in front of him. It's the last thing Ashe sees before
consciousness escapes him.
SARAH
emerges from the shadows, staring down at Ashe in wonder.
CUT TO BLACK:
SUPER TITLE:
"OCTOBER 31ST - ALL HALLOWS EVE"
BANG! BANG! BANG! Curve FIRES a gun into Ashe's chest. Ashe crumples
and we are back at...
Ashe stumbles from the doorway out onto the sidewalk. He rushes
blindly up the street.
CAMERA WHIP-PANS
from the fleeing Ashe to Sarah's window. On a pillar outside,
the Crow is waiting...
Beneath the arching span of a freeway bridge is a series of corrugated
iron sheds. CAMERA FOLLOWS as Ashe, exhausted fro his run, makes
his way towards them. The Crow flies on ahead, landing next to
one of the doors, beckoning...
Ashe slides one of the RATTLING doors open...
From the back doorway, Ashe and Danny catch sight of Curve and
his crew executing someone beneath the freeway overpass. Curve's
face is splattered with blood. He turns and sees them...
CURVE
See no evil.
Now we're back at the pier. The memory flashes are coming faster
and faster. Danny is sobbing once again.
DANNY'S VOICE
I'm sorry, Dad...I'm sorry...
We see Kali raise her gun. BANG! There's the muzzle flash! Ashe
SCREAMS...
ASHE
NO!!!
CURVE'S VOICE
Nothing personal, sport.
SMASH CUT TO:
Ashe rockets beneath the gothic arches of the freeway overpass
on his motorcycle, hellfire burning in his eyes, his coat flapping
behind him like a fallen angel's wings.
THE CROW
flies alongside Ashe.
THE CROW
lands on a telephone wire, studying the warehouse.
Presently we hear Ashe's MOTORCYCLE approaching, then we see
the front wheel of his bike pulling into the foreground.
CROW'S POV (ANAMORPHIC)
Ashe turns to the Crow, slyly giving the bird the thumbs-up sign...
MATCH CUT TO...
An EXPLOSION rips through the front of the lab, spilling roiling
CLOUDS OF FIRE out into the street. The blackened windows SHATTER
OUTWARDS in a HAIL STORM OF GLASS... ASHE
emerges from the raging conflagration, walking right through
the flames, indifferent to the heat. A flurry of the tiny glassine
drug bags swirl around him like snow.
THE CROW
spirals down from a telephone wire, landing atop the handlebars
of Ashe's motorcycle.
ASHE
lifts his head to the night sky, laughing. His clothes are still
smoking.
CUT TO:
The demolished building is still burning strong. Curve arrives
on the scene, dismounting his motorcycle.
CLOSE ON CURVE
as he studies the shattered glass which litters the asphalt.
The fire is reflected in the fragments. With a growing sense
of dread, Curve looks from the glass to the tattoo on his chest.
He touches the Crow tattoo.
SCENE FROM ABOVE -
Now we see that the glass shards have fallen in an array that
is anything but random. The shards have taken the shape of a
large crow.
CUT TO:
THE CROW
flys past a line of palm trees which burst into flames.
CUT TO:
The Peep-O-Rama occupies an old Japanese movie house. A geisha-girl
sign flashes over the marquee. Beneath that is a blinking neon
eye which opens and closes. Other signs offer enticements like
"ONLY 25 CENTS A PEEP!" and "REAL GIRLS WORKING THEIR WAY THROUGH
COLLEGE!"
As Nemo approaches, a laconic HINDU with a throat microphone
sits outside, reciting his tired schpiel.
HINDU
Tokens for the buddy booths, live girls. Tokens for the buddy
booths, live girls...
Nemo hands the Hindu a twenty.
Curve ROARS UP on his motorcycle, followed by Kali and a car-load
of ENFORCERS. The team grab their weapons, head for the porno
shop...
KALI
Inside!
Kali leads the crew of killers into the porno shop. But Curve
stops, sensing something. He spins around...
THE CROW
is sitting atop one of the cars, watching him.
Ashe exits a phone booth, leaving the receiver dangling. A DOG
BARKS nearby, followed by the sound of CHILDREN LAUGHING. Ashe
turns and sees...
A GROUP OF CHILDREN running away, giggling, their FOOTSTEPS receding
into the night.
A BLACK DOG trots toward Ashe. The children have tied a plastic
skull mask to the dog's head. The skull dog trots up the street
towards...
A SMALL, INNER-CITY LATINO CHURCH
sandwiched between two derelict buildings. The doors are open
- there's a path of marigold petals leading up the front steps.
The skull dog trots up the steps and enters.
As Ashe climbs aboard his bike, he catches sight of himself in
the...
DISPLAY WINDOW OF A BAKERY
Within the bakery are mountains of sugar skulls, candy skeletons,
and pan de muerte (bread of the dead). Ashe's reflection is superimposed
over this morbid tableau.
Ashe fires up the bike's engine. He takes off down the street...
CUT TO:
Ashe stands at the end of the pier, staring down into the silent
waters where his natural life ended. He takes something from
his coat...
THE PAINTING
which Danny had been working on. It's got bullet holes in it
now.
Ashe throws his arms back and lifts his face to the heavens,
SCREAMING, cursing his fate.
ON ASHE,
as seen from afar. A tiny figure dwarfed by the endless expanse
of ocean and sky.
CUT TO:
Curve and Kali are leaving the shop. Suddenly Curve clutches
at his chest, wincing in pain. He opens his coat, looks down
at his chest...
THE CROW TATTOO
is dripping blood from its beak and talons.
Curve staggers back, horrified. Kali is watching him.
CURVE
No...no...
KALI
What is it?
But Curve isn't listening. He leaps onto his motorcycle and hits
the ignition. He takes off with a ROAR...
KALI
Curve!
It's no good. Curve is long gone.
CUT TO:
NOTE: The following scene appears here in the script, but in
the film it appears in Chapter 12.
Curve comes storming out the back door like a bat out of Hell.
He takes the rear stairs three at a time, spilling into a couple
of back-alley JUNKIES. He stumbles into a pile of garbage, scatters
some rats...
Curve makes for his bike, which is parked nearby. He fumbles
with the key, hits the starter switch...
Ashe comes flying off from a second story fire escape, landing
atop a car roof on all fours, popping the windows.
ASHE
Time's up, Curve.
CURVE
Fuck you, bird-dick!
Curve jerks his bike towards the street and guns it...
Curve zooms by a bridal shop-sees his own reflection in the window.
Curve SHRIEKS, turns into the Alley, tachometer red-lining. He
glances behind him...The crow flies by.
THE CROW
plunges down from the night sky, wings flapping madly, quickly
gaining on Curve like the breath of death.
Ashe, in a dream-like state, races along.
Curve leans in low, trying to urge his bike on by will-power
alone. He races by a warehouse, veering off the road onto the
railroad tracks.
UP ABOVE,
Ashe appears on the overpass, riding on his own motorcycle, matching
Curve's speed.
THE CROW
soars higher for a bird's eye view, tracking Curve's progress
as it sweeps past chimneys, swerves around billboards, ducks
under laundry lines...
ON ASHE
as he ROCKETS along the overpass. The Crow lands on his shoulder.
Ahead is a break in the guard rail. Ashe cuts sharply to the
right, taking the motorcycle airborne through the break in the
rail and...
ASHE
...lands on the surface street some thirty feet below! Ashe is
now just behind Curve.
CUT TO:
The chase continues. Curve approaches the bridge doing well past
ninety. Abruptly, he cuts down a roadway which parallels the
river. There's a chain-link running across the mouth of the tunnel.
Up ahead is a hole in the fence leading down to a tunnel spillway.
Curve guides his bike through the hole...
Ashe drags Curve down the sloping end of the spillway to the
waters edge.
ASHE
I want to thank you for showing me my pain, Curve. You made me
what I am.
ON ASHE
As he releases Curve, letting the current carry him away. Ashe
stands, tracking Curve's progress.
ON CURVE
as he floats downstream, limbs outstretched, consciousness fading
fast.
CURVE'S POV
GHOSTLY FACES stare down at him from the girders - people who
have made their home in the underbelly of the bridge which stretches
overhead.
A WOMAN lets loose a cloud of marigold petals. They flutter down
around Curve, swirling in the currents.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL
the petals have clustered around Curve's body in the shape of
a Crow. Curve continues to float downstream towards an estuary,
borne away on the wings of the bird.
END OF MOVED SCENE
Ashe is on the motorcycle, racing through the streets. He takes
a corner on a skid, zipping past the Gray Gargoyle and the neighboring
train tracks.
CUT TO:
Ashe pulls up on the motorcycle, SCREECHING to a stop. He leaps
from the bike, rushing into Sarah's building.
Kali comes CRASHING through the window, falling down to the sidewalk
below. She lands atop a wrecked car, snapping her back in two...
CLOSE ON KALI
lies on the ground, her limbs twisted at awkward angles. She
MOANS, somehow still alive.
KALI'S POV
as Ashe approaches. The Crow flits in from off-screen, landing
on his shoulder. Watching Kali with it's curious golden eyes.
As Ashe draws near, Kali tries to rise. The most she can do is
lift her head.
KALI
(GASPING)
I...can't...move...
Ashe stares at her, dispassionate.
KALI
Kill...me, then...finish...it...
Ashe simply shakes his head.
KALI
You...have to.
ASHE
My job is to send you to hell. You're in it.
Kali stares at Ashe in disbelief, her stoic warrior's mien quickly
evaporating.
KALI
There's no...honor in this. It's my...death. I've won it..
Ashe turns and starts away.
ASHE
Me, too.
KALI
Wait! Where are you going?! Wait! You can't...do this! You can't
do this!!!
But Ashe doesn't turn back. He leaves Kali in the cold, wet street,
ignoring her pathetic laments.
Ashe continues on to the end of the alley...
THE CROW
lands on Ashe's outstretched hand.
The Crow takes wing, lifting its way up into the night.
Ashe fires up the motorcycle's engine, tearing away from Sarah's
apartment in a cloud of smoke.
CUT TO:
Ashe comes screaming over a hill on his motorcycle, the image
of Judah's face burned into his mind...
A HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE
piloted by a man in a devil mask suddenly looms up in front of
Ashe. The street ahead has been cordoned off with flashing wooden
barricades. There's some kind of street fiesta going on...
Ashe swerves, BRAKING HARD to avoid hitting the carriage. Ashe's
bike slips out from under him and Ashe goes CRASHING into the
barricades. But even as the carriage's skull-faced costumed occupants
rush up to help him...
... Ashe is up and running, leaping over the barricades into
the crowd beyond...
CUT TO:
The Crow lands atop the buzzing "JESUS SAVES" sign. It cocks
its head, as if considering its next move, then flies toward
the campanile.
A massive street festival is under way with Dia de los Muertos
CELEBRANTS mobbing the area. Paper "BIENVENIDOS" banners are
strung overhead. CHILDREN light strings of firecrackers. Masked
MUMMERS in garish costumes dance, MUSICIANS stroll. People are
holding giant papier-mache skulls on sticks along with torches
and calavera placards.
There are stalls offering marigolds and cockscomb, black beeswax
tapers, dangling toy skeletons, mountains of calaveras de azucar.
ASHE
pushes through the throng of revelers, invisible amidst the carnival
atmosphere. In his makeup he's just another face in the crowd.
CUT TO:
Ashe fights his way through the crowd. A drunken, MASKED WOMAN
grabs hold of him, spins him around, dancing. Ashe shoves her
aside, making his way to...
The black sky beyond shimmers with turbulent yellow thunderheads.
The entry way to the tower has been gated and chained. The only
way in is up.
Ashe grabs a hold of one of the ornamental statues which crowd
th ebuildint's facade. He pulls himself up, starting the daunting
task of scaling the tower.
CUT TO:
Ashe continues to climb. A cluster of PIGEONS take wing, startled
from their roost...
Ashe pulls back, one of his hands slipping free. He dangles there
for a moment, hanging by the tenuous grasp of his fingertips.
SIBYL
who has been lurking in the shadows, suddenly lifts her head
up...
SIBYL
(full of portent)
Ashe is here.
Judah grins. This moment has been a long time coming...
JUDAH
Not for long.
Judah raises the misericord up high. Sarah turns her head away
as...
...Judah plunges the weapon down, pounding it straight through
the bird's right wing!
CUT TO:
Ten stories up now. Ashe suddenly loses his handhold. He SCREAMS
in agony as he suffers the pain of the Crow through their symbiotic
link. Ashe stares down at his hand in disbelief...
CLOSE ON ASHE'S HAND
Blood seeps from a stigma-like wound on his palm.
Ashe CRIES OUT again as his left hand is seemingly twisted back
against his will. A second stigma wound appears.
He slips, tumbling to the next ledge down but catching himself
on his fingertips. He hazards a look down...
ASHE'S POV
Day of the Dead CELEBRANTS crowd the streets far below.
BACK TO SCENE
ASHE
(in agony)
...oh God...help me...
It takes every ounce of Ashe's strength to keep from letting
go. He tightens his white-knuckled grip on the ledge above.
Shaking terribly, trying to fight back the pain, Ashe continues
to climb. He reaches up to a...
STONE MAIDEN
which protrudes from the building's facade. The maiden's face
has been all but worn bare by the harsh elements.
Ashe clutches the back of the maiden in a parody of a lover's
embrace. Using the statue for support, he drags himself back
up to relative safety. Now Ashe is face to face with the maiden,
staring into its blind stone eyes.
ASHE
Sarah.
Ashe whispers the word like a mantra, using it to urge him on.
Steeling himself again, fighting the burning pain, Ashe resumes
his climb. He's on autopilot now, just trying to reach the campanile,
which at this point, seems hopelessly unattainable.
THE SKY ABOVE
seems to churn and roil. A storm of epic proportions is about
to break.
CUT TO:
Ashe Cries out a final time as a GAPING WOUND appears on his
chest, BLOOD BLOSSOMING outward.
CITY STREET
The Day of the Dead celebrants swirl around us, Judah's Tower
rising up behind the mob - an unholy ziggurat built to challenge
the gods. The CROWD has been worked up into a frenzy. Everyone
is singing and dancing. MUSIC blasts from loudspeakers...
ASHE
comes CRASHING DOWN atop a small vending stall filled to the
brim with flowers an sugar skulls. Time slows as a flurry of
golder marigold petals flutter down around his still form.
Ashe lies amidst a field of shimmering glass shards and flowers.
THE MASKED CELEBRANTS
slowly gather around Ashe, craning their necks for a view of
the fallen angel.
CLOSE ON ASHE'S FACE
Relaxed, peaceful, even. For a moment, we aren't sure whether
or not Ashe's soul has fled.
The peripheral noise from the street festival dies away. We're
in the eye of the hurricane now. Once again, time seems to shudder
to a stop. And the only thing we hear are...
THE CROWS
Thousands of them, filling the heavens with their KEENING WAILS.
Ashe slowly opens his eyes, tentative. When you're this deep
in the bosom of bliss, the last thing you want to do is waken,
but waken he does...
ASHE'S POV - THE SKY ABOVE JUDAH'S TOWER
is black with crows. And endless army of carrion-creatures, swirling
madly about.
BACK TO SCENE
Ashe sits up, stares at the crows, fascinated, frightened. Then
his eyes fall to the faces of the people around him. We are in
dream-time now, blurring the edges of reality.
A CHILD
wearing a skull mask pushes to the front of the crowd. He stares
at Ashe a moment, then lifts the mask from his face...
It's Danny.
ASHE
(CONFUSED)
Danny...?
Ashe rushes to Danny's side, holding him tight, his disbelief
overpowered by the unfettered joy of seeing his son once again.
ASHE
What are you doing here?!
DANNY
It's time to go back, Dad.
Ashe looks up at the screaming crows above them.
ASHE
Is that why they're here?
DANNY
(NODDING)
They're the souls who came before you. They're crying for the
people they've lost.
(BEAT)
Now they're crying for you.
ASHE
But Sarah still needs me.
DANNY
You don't understand, Dad. You work for the dead, not the living.
Your work here is done.
Ashe reaches for his son's shoulders, all but pleading with him.
ASHE
I can't go, not yet, not now...
DANNY
You have to.
ASHE
Danny, I can't leave her like this...
The CRIES of the crows grow louder as the sky above becomes darker.
A shadow passes over Danny's face. He Seems Saddened. For a moment,
it seems as if another entity creeps into Danny's voice.
DANNY
If you turn your back on the dead now, you'll be trapped between
the worlds. You'll never be allowed to cross over.
(BEAT)
You'll be alone, Dad. Forever.
Ashe hesitates a moment, realizing the enormity of what he is
about to do. It's an agonizing choice.
ASHE
I have to stay.
Danny nods.
DANNY
I know.
Danny reaches out to touch Ashe's painted face...
DANNY
(FORLORN)
Good-bye, Dad.
As Danny says his parting words, the SOUNDS of the world around
them come rushing back with startling clarity. Danny starts to
turn away...
ASHE
Danny, wait...!
WHAM! Ashe bolts up from the bed of flowers and glass. The spell
is broken. Was he dreaming...?
No, there's Danny slipping back into the crows, the mask pulled
down over his face once again.
Ashe reaches for Danny, spinning him around, pulling off the
mask...
...only it's not Danny! It's a drunken DWARF with fucked-up teeth
who's laughing his ass of at Ashe. Ashe recoils, horrified, then
spins around, suddenly finding himself face to face with...
JUDAH
standing just a few yards away, emerging from the doorway of
his tower. He got the anti-Crow blood mask on his face. His eyes
are glowing like twin stars and his lips are curled back in a
feral snarl. In his hands, he holds one of the chains from his
campanile.
Judah grabs Ashe by the lapels of his coat, draging him close
so they're eye to eye -- close enough to breathe the same beath
-- two sides of a coin.
JUDAH
Tell me, Ashe. Do you every get the feeling we're all just dead
men on leave?
ASHE
(seething with hatred)
Judah.
JUDAH
In the flesh.
Judah flings Ashe backwards...
Ashe reaches his hand into his coat, pulling out a .45. He FIRES
into Judah's chest - once, twice, thrice...
Judah doesn't even stagger, he just keeps on grinning. Wisps
of smoke rise up from the holes in his chest.
Ashe stares at Judah, dumbfounded.
ASHE
What...are...you?
JUDAH
I'm your shadow, Ashe. Every angel's got a devil. Didn't you
know that? Or maybe you just slept your way through Sunday school?
Judah lashes out with the rope. Ashe spins and falters. Incredibly,
he finds himself feeling pain.
Judah follows with a series of blows, each more savage than the
next, driving Ashe back...
Ashe stumbles, falls to his hands and knees. He reaches to his
mouth, his hand comes away spattered with blood. Ashe shakes
his head to clear it.
Judah kicks Ashe in the face, knocking him onto his back...
...but Ashe springs back to his feet. He tries to strike Judah.
Judah catches Ashe's hand and squeezes tight. We hear bones snapping.
CRACK! Judah smashes out with his other fist, Ashe spins around
and collapses...
Ashe tries to push himself up by his hands. He coughs, spitting
up more blood, crawls forward...
ASHE
What... did you do to me...?
JUDAH
I've tasted the blood of the Crow and taken your power.
WHOOSH! Judah whips the rope about, snapping the end around Ashe's
neck, dragging him off his feet.
Judah pulls Ashe forward, crouching over him like a spider ready
to devour its prey.
JUDAH
You're flesh and blood now, Ashe. You can die like any other
man.
ASHE
Go to hell.
JUDAH
Already been there. And I must confess, I liked what I saw.
CUT TO:
Judah plants his foot on Ashe's chest, tightening the chain around
Ashe's throat.
JUDAH
Looks like the dead have forsaken you, my friend.
Ashe clutches at the rusty chain links which bite into his flesh,
choking.
JUDAH
Look at you, bleeding like a stuck pig. Where's your precious
strength? Where's your power?
(drawing closer, whispering)
You're nothing now, Ashe, not even a ghost.
Judah rises. He grabs a hold of the chain, pulling...
ASHE
down the street. Ashe SCREAMS as his body is dragged across the
asphalt...
CUT TO:
Judah has dragged Ashe over to the East side of the street, in
front of an old movie palace. He leaps atop one of the vending
stalls and clambers onto the marquee itself.
JUDAH
shouts to the crowds below, his eyes on fire.
JUDAH
You want death?! Here he is, people!!! Take a good look!!!
Even as Ashe fights to free himself of the chain, Judah loops
one end of it over a street lamp. He jumps from the marquee,
using his body weight to pull Ashe from the ground...
ASHE
is dragged up into the air, dangling above the faces of the crowd.
Sarah rushes out the front entrance of the tower, into the Day
of the Dead crowd which swarms below. She pushes through the
mob, trying to fight her way across the street.
Ashe swings like a puppet from Judah's improvised hangman's noose.
His coat and short have been all but torn to shreds.
Judah drags down on the chain harder, lifting Ashe even higher,
tightening the noose. He secures the chain on a hydrant, then
strolls forward, inspecting his work. Judah circles Ashe, grinning
like the cat who swallowed the canary.
JUDAH
Now don't we look pretty...
Ashe struggles, choking, causing...
THE TATTERED PAINTING
of Danny's that Ashe had kept in his coat pocket to fall free.
It flutters to the ground, landing at Judah's feet.
Judah kneels, picking it up. As he unfolds the painting, we see
that it has been stained with Ashe's own blood. He tilts it this
way and that -- as if he were appraising the craftsmanship of
the piece.
JUDAH
Nice. If you prick him, does he not bleed?
Judah looks up at Ashe, his eyes full of crazed humor, then he
very deliberately tears the painting to shreds, letting the pieces
fall away into the night wind.
Judah reaches for metal rod, lashing out at Ashe's bare, bloodied
back...
WHACK! Ashe SCREAMS. Judah is hell-bent on beating Ashe into
oblivion. With every stroke of the switch the crowd CHEERS.
CLOSE ON ASHE
His eyes are rolling to whites as consciousness begins to recede...
ASHE'S POV
The swirling faces of the masked celebrants, with Judah front
and center. Mob mentality, everyone drunk and LAUGHING, jeering
at Ashe, the dangling fool. It's a scene out of Hell...
.. and behind Judah, a familiar figure pushing her way to the
front of the crowd...
SARAH
lunges forward, clutching the misericord, shoving a reveller
aside...
SARAH
Get away from him!
Judah turns. Sarah drives the misericord into Judah's eye. Judah,
momentarily blinded, falls back...
Sarah unlashes the end of the chain from the hydrant...
ASHE
falls to the street as the chain CLATTERS over the street lamp.
He unravels the chain from his throat and drags himself back
up...
ASHE
Sarah, get back!
Too late. Judah has torn the misericord from his eye. He rushes
up to Sarah and...
...THUNK! Drives it deep into her chest.
ASHE
SARAH!!!
Sarah gasps, drops to her knees, clutching at the dagger's handle.
She pulls the misericord out. Blood begins to well up from the
wound. She stares at her blood-covered hands in disbelief, then
falls back.
Silence now as the crowd begins to back away. The mood has shifted.
Ashe drops by Sarah's side. She stares up at the sky, eyes wide
with wonder...
SARAH
The crows...I can see them coming...
SARAH'S POV
Once again, the crows are wheeling around the ceiling of the
sky.
BACK TO SCENE
Ashe looks up at Judah, fueled by a righteous rage that's been
burning since the moment of his resurrection. He rises. All reason
is gone. The only think that remains for Ashe is an unbridled
animal fury.
Ashe launches himself at Judah, sending the villain tumbling
back into a nest of scaffolding. One of the pipes punches clear
through Judah's chest, impaling him!
Judah hangs there, transfixed like a butterfly with a pin stuck
through it. He struggles to pull himself from the piping, but
even so, he's laughing hysterically...
JUDAH
You can't stop me anymore, Ashe. You don't have the power.
Ashe's eyes boil with hatred.
ASHE
If it were just me, you'd be right, Judah. But I have an eternity
of pain to call upon...
Ashe lifts his hands up, exposing his bleeding palms.
ASHE
And the pain gives me strength.
ASHE'S PALMS
As we watch the stigmata close themselves up, blood drawing itself
back into the wounds.
Ashe raises his arms to the sky, gesturing to the crows which
spin high above his head.
ASHE
TAKE HIM!!!
The murder of crows spirals down from the sky like a black tidal
wave. They descend on Judah as one entity, SCREAMING down from
the heavens like a storm of razor blades.
JUDAH
NO!!!
We get one final glimpse of horrified Judah's face, eyes wide
with terror, before the tidal wave of black wings engulfs him.
JUDAH
lets loose a DEATH-SHRIEK that all but splits the sky as the
myriad beaks and talons rend him limb from limb.
DOWN IN THE STREET,
Ashe returns to Sarah's side, lifting her up off the ground and
cradling her in his arms.
ASHE
You can't die, Sarah... I stayed for you.
SARAH
(GASPING)
There's a balance that needs to be kept...someone had to cross
over...
Sarah takes a ragged breath, wincing as a wave of pain washes
over her.
SARAH
I didn't want it to be you...
Sarah looks up at Ashe, tries her level best to smile. She's
at death's door now - one foot already over the threshold. Her
face is pale, having lost so much blood. Tears spill down Ashe's
cheeks, causing the war-paint makeup to run in rivulets.
ASHE
(in anguish)
I can't go with you, Sarah. I have to stay here now.
(cursing his fate)
I have to stay.
SARAH
Do you love me?
Ashe nods.
Sarah reaches down to the wedding ring which hangs from her neck
on the chain. She tugs at the chain, snapping it apart. She holds
the ring out to Ashe.
SARAH
Take...this...
Ashe takes the ring from Sarah. She closes Ashe's hand around
the ring, gripping his fist tightly.
SARAH
I'll wait for you. Forever, if I have to.
She shuts her eyes, riding through another wave of pain.
ASHE
Oh God...
SARAH
Listen...if two people really love each other...
She inhales sharply. Breathing has become a labor for her now.
SARAH
...nothing can keep them apart.
(her voice fading)
...nothing.
Ashe nods, trying to let this thought reassure him. It's the
only thing he has left to cling to.
SARAH'S POV
Ashe's face, surrounded by a nimbus of light. We're falling away
from him. Down, down, down. And as we fall, we hear a FLUTTERING
OF WINGS.
ON SARAH'S FACE
Her eyes lose focus. Her head goes slack in Ashe's arms. She's
gone.
Ashe lowers his lips to her, kissing her one final time.
Ashe cradles Sarah's lifeless body in his arms, gently rocking
back and forth, tears streaming down his cheeks.
And as we pull back from them, we realize that the scene mirrors
the prophetic image from Sarah's own painting - the woman dying
in the arms of her lover, surrounded by a gallery of skull-masked
celebrants.
Ashe stands, lifting Sarah in his arms. He turns to leave...
THE DAY OF THE DEAD CROWD
slowly part for him, revealing a path of marigold petals leading
away down the street. It's almost as if, by silent consensus,
the crowd has come to understand what has happened here this
night.
ASHE
moves through the crowd carrying Sarah in his arms. The people
close ranks behind him and we...
CUT TO:
The same church we visited the night before. Ashe, still carrying
Sarah in his arms, enters the sanctuary.
The church is aglow with candles. Ashe lays Sarah's body down
in front of the offrenda, folding her arms across her chest,
leaving her in a state of repose. He stands, taking in one last
look.
As Ashe moves to leave, he sees the elderly priest he had spoken
to earlier.
PRIEST
Why are you still here?
ASHE
Because I have nowhere left to go.
Ashe steps past the priest, moving towards the doorway and the
daylight beyond.
PRIEST
What will you do, then?
ASHE
(looking back)
This city is filled with shadows. One more won't make it any
darker.
Ashe exits the church, finding haven in a shadowed doorway. He
reaches into his pocket, removing the wedding ring Sarah had
given to him...
CLOSE ON THE RING
as Ashe turns it over in his hands, seeing the word "FOREVER"
inscribed on the inside of the band. He slips it on his finger.
GRACE (O.S.)
(CONCERNED)
Are you all right?
Ashe looks up to see...
GRACE,
the drugged-out girl that Sarah helped at the beginning of the
film. She's looking good now, clean of the poison that once possessed
her. And damned if she isn't holding Gabriel in her arms.
GRACE
Long night, huh?
Gabriel MEOWS to Ashe. Ashe reaches out and scratches the cat's
ear.
GRACE
Isn't he cool? I found him on the street. I was going to take
him home with me.
ASHE
You should. Looks like he needs a home.
GRACE
Well, see ya.
She smiles at him and starts off down the street. Gabriel turns
around in Grace's arms and peers back at Ashe from over her shoulder.
Ashe moves out from the shadows into the steadily growing light,
watching them. We see just a hint of hope in his eyes - hope
that someday he and Sarah will be reunited.
As we hold on Ashe's face, Sarah's VOICE-OVER begins.
SARAH (V.O.)
I believe there's a place where the restless souls wanter...
DISSOLVE TO:
The same scene as the beginning of our film. We've made a circle.
A heavy mist hangs before us - endless and impenetrable. And
out of that primordial fog a CROW materializes, flying towards
the camera in slow motion.
SARAH (V.O.)
Burdened by the weight of their own sadness, they cannot enter
Heaven...
Presently a second shape materializes - a FIGURE ON HORSEBACK,
galloping after the Crow.
SARAH (V.O.)
And so they wait, trapped between our world and the next, endlessly
searching for a way to rid themselves of their pain - in the
hopes that somehow, some day, they will be reunited...
As the dark rider comes towards us, we realize that it's Sarah
whose baleful eyes are now shining behind the irony mask war
paint.
SARAH (V.O.)
...with the ones they love.
CUT TO:
Ashe is back on his bike, racing beneath the cathedral-like arches
of the overpass. As he sweeps past a concrete pillar we...
CUT TO:
Sarah on her horse, galloping in parallel action. As she sweeps
last a tree we...
CUT TO:
Ashe on the bike. Now we intercut between the two doomed lovers,
each on their respective steeds. Worlds apart, and yet, somehow
traveling the same road.
We are intercutting faster and faster, until the sound of HOOFBEATS
and the MOTORCYCLE'S ROAR are indistinguishable.
Until the two figures themselves begin to blur.
Faster and faster and faster until we...
CUT TO BLACK.
Over the darkness we hear Sarah's final words to Ashe:
SARAH'S VOICE
If two people really love each other, nothing can keep them apart...
(BEAT)
Nothing.
THE END
Crow: City of Angels, The
Writers : David S GoyerJames O'Barr
Genres : ActionFantasyThrillerCrime
User Comments
Back to IMSDb