Backgrounded by palm trees and rolling surf, an American
army radar operator sits at his huge instrument, intently
tracking a target. Without interrupting this, he speaks with
tense excitement into a telephone transmitter strapped to
his chest. (It is 8:00 a.m.)
(In this and the subsequent scenes, music and cutting build
to an exciting crescendo).
A group of British soldiers, in shorts and tropical gear,
are gathered tensely around a piece of radar equipment, which
is tracking a target. The radar operator says something to
another soldier, who turns and speaks excitedly into a field
telephone. (It is 5:00 a.m.)
The plane is identified by a red star on the fuselage.
NIGHT
A group of French farmers is collected around a radio,
listening wide-eyed to the keyed-up voice which is telling
them, in French, of a strange object that has been seen in
the sky. They exchange uneasy glances. One old man crosses
himself.
SPLIT SCREEN SHOT
The attendant, who is filling a car with gas, leans around
to hear the car's radio, oblivious to the fact that the car's
tank is overflowing.
3RD RADIO REPORTER
(voice off scene)
We interrupt this program to give
you a bulletin just received from
one of our naval units at sea. "A
large object, traveling at supersonic
speed, is headed over the North
Atlantic toward the east coast of
the United States."
Music builds to a climax and ends.
A small crowd of tourists is climbing the steps to the
columned entrance.
Under this shot a barely audible, distant hum is heard. It
grows in volume so imperceptibly in this and the next two
shots that we are unconscious of it.
Crowds are strolling on the Mall and across the well-kept
lawns in front of the Smithsonian Institution with the
leisurely, meandering quality that distinguishes sight-seers.
MED. SHOT
Including several small groups of people moving toward the
Smithsonian. Their attention is attracted as the hum off
scene becomes a roar. The sound is unearthly in its intensity
and almost unbearable in its swiftly increasing volume. The
people stop in their tracks and look up in the sky in terror.
MED. CLOSE SHOT
Several people on the steps of the Smithsonian have turned
to look. There is cold, frozen fear in their eyes. The awful
sound keeps increasing in volume.
CLOSE SHOT
A man, following the progress of a huge object in the sky
with his eyes. He is held terror-stricken.
LONG SHOT INTO SKY (SERSEN SHOT)
A giant shape, still at some distance, is approaching the
earth at incredible speed.
LONG SHOT ON GROUND
A group of people run wildly across a large expanse of lawn.
A huge shadow cast from above onto the grass seems to be
pursing them.
LONG SHOT INTO SKY (SERSEN SHOT)
The great shape is considerably nearer now.
CLOSE SHOT
Of a woman, thoroughly shaken, held immobile by what she
sees and hears.
LONG SHOT
People scatter madly in all directions as the huge spaceship
comes in for a landing on a smooth, grassy area. The
tremendous roar of its motors is suddenly cut off and the
great ship settles gently to a perfect landing.
MED. SHOT - THE SHIP
The gleaming surface of the ship shows no break of any kind --
no windows, no ports, not even the outline of a hatch. It is
a fearsome, terrifying object, giving no evidence of its
source or its intention.
LONG SHOT - (FROM PARALLEL)
Shooting down on a section of lawn, showing the varying
reactions of people to the landing. Some are still running
madly away; others, singly and in little groups, stand as
though rooted, staring at the ship from a respectful distance.
CLOSE SHOT - MAN
As he stares at the ship with fascination and horror. He'd
like to run but he can't. His mouth twitches and he emits a
nervous little laugh.
MED. CLOSE SHOT
A woman is holding a two-year-old child by the hand as she
watches the ship, awe-struck. Several people run past them.
Suddenly the woman grabs up the child with a little sob,
turns and runs away.
MED. SHOT
A middle-aged man runs up to a group of several people,
pointing wildly toward the ship and yelling irrationally:
MAN
They're here! They're here!
He runs off toward another group as we--
DISSOLVE TO:
MONTAGE
A series of short DISSOLVES showing:
1. A man dashing up to a crowded Washington street corner
shouting wildly and gesticulating in the direction from which
he came.
2. Policemen piling into squad cars, which roar out of their
garage.
3. Soldiers rushing out of a barracks at Fort Myer, with
rifles and side arms, to form up on their company street.
4. Newspaper presses rolling at high speed.
5. Newscasters chattering excitedly into their microphones.
6. A large telephone switchboard with the girls in a frenzy
of activity as they try to handle the calls pouring in.
DISSOLVE TO:
The players are standing on the field in the crowded stadium,
but the game has been interrupted and everyone is listening
to the voice on the loudspeaker system. (Actual stock shot
would be coverage of some dedication or ceremonial.)
DISSOLVE TO:
Two platoons of infantry soldiers surround the ship, their
rifles at the ready.
PEARSON'S VOICE
(over scene)
Troops have been rushed from Fort
Myer and they have formed a cordon
around the ship.
MED. SHOT
showing two machine guns, two Sherman tanks and two 75MM
guns. The gun crews are posted for action and all weapons
are trained on the space ship.
PEARSON'S VOICE
(over scene)
They are supported by machine guns,
tanks and artillery.
MED. SHOT - POLICE CORDON
Cops are holding back a section of a large crowd, some
distance away from the ship. The people are wide-eyed and
tense with excitement.
PEARSON'S VOICE
(over scene)
Behind police lines, there is a large
crowd of curiosity seekers.
SERIES OF INDIVIDUAL CUTS
1. Civilians in the crowd, their eyes and nerves taut with
suspense.
2. A young soldier, who grips his rifle and moistens his
lips nervously, his eyes never leaving the ship.
3. A tank commander blinks from the tension of staring at an
unmoving object.
4. The last cut is of the ship itself.
PEARSON'S VOICE
(over scene)
As you can see for yourself, the
Army has taken every precaution to
meet whatever the situation may
require. Every eye -- every weapon --
is trained on the ship. It's been
this way for two hours and the tension--
CLOSE SHOT - PEARSON
as he interrupts himself excitedly, his attention riveted on
the TV screen.
PEARSON
Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen!
I think I see something moving!
We are at the actual location now, not looking at TV. We see
the ship surrounded by soldiers, two medium tanks, two
artillery pieces, and a couple of machine guns. Some distance
away is a suggestion of the crowd of civilians, held back by
police. Prominent in the scene are newsreel and television
cameras. OUR CAMERA MOVES IN to MED. SHOT. As it does so, we
see a couple of metal objects rising slowly from the top of
the ship. One, which is an oddly-designed coil of wire, slides
up and revolves slowly. The other is a section of vented
pipe with a convex cap on it.
REVERSE ANGLE
on the soldiers, their eyes glued to this first sign of
activity from the ship. They shift uneasily, gripping their
rifles more firmly.
MED. SHOT - THE SHIP
After a long, tense moment, a ramp appears silently out of
the side of the ship and slides down to the ground. There is
an audible gasp as a man appears at the top of the ramp. He
looks around at the crowd with cool and imperturbable dignity.
This is KLAATU. He is completely human in appearance. The
only unearthly thing about him is his clothing. He wears a
tunic that is very good looking, but at the same time
thoroughly comfortable and practical. On his head is a metal
helmet that obscures most of his face. (It would be impossible
to identify him later.) The design of this helmet gives the
impression that it is more a formal headdress than for
protection. Klaatu is above all an impressive man -- a man
of tremendous dignity and presence. He has the tolerant
superiority that comes with absolute knowledge.
INDIVIDUAL REACTION CUTS
of soldiers, people in the crowd, and policemen. The newsreel
and TV men are busy at their cameras.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
After an impressive moment, he raises his arms in the
universal gesture of neutrality. Then he speaks, in perfect
English, his voice amplified as though through an enunciator.
KLAATU
We have come to visit you in peace --
and with good will.
Klaatu walks slowly down the ramp toward the soldiers. As he
does so, he draws from inside his tunic a strange looking
object, longish and tubular. It might be a a telescope -- or
it might be some strange kind of weapon.
MED. SHOT
shooting from the side, showing Klaatu advancing slowly toward
the line of soldiers. He holds out the mysterious object in
front of him in a gesture that is actually one of offering
but could be misinterpreted as menacing. There is a growing,
uneasy rumble of muttering among the soldiers as Klaatu
advances. They are clearly frightened of what he may do.
CLOSE SHOT - PLATOON LEADER
A young second lieutenant, standing in front of his platoon.
As Klaatu advances, the lieutenant unslings his carbine.
MED. SHOT
Klaatu starts toward the platoon leader, raising the object
he holds toward the man, trying to make clear his intentions.
Misinterpreting this as a menacing gesture, the platoon leader
raises his carbine to his shoulder.
MED. CLOSE SHOT
of one of the tank commanders in the turret of his tank. He
is watching Klaatu advancing toward the platoon leader and
he has drawn his pistol. Convinced that the lieutenant is in
jeopardy, the tank commander aims at Klaatu and fires.
MED. SHOT
as Klaatu falls to the ground wounded. The object he was
holding has dropped from his hand and smashed. The soldiers
start to gather around Klaatu excitedly when suddenly there
appears in the entrance to the space ship a huge robot. There
is a gasp of amazement from the crowd and the solders draw
back at sight of him. The robot is ten feet tall, is made in
the almost-perfect image of a man. He is to be played by an
actor and his flesh appears to be made of a greenish metal.
His eyes flash as though lighted internally. His perfectly-
fashioned, muscular body is covered only with a loincloth.
This is GORT.
There are cries of amazement as Gort walks slowly ponderously,
down the ramp to the ground. As he does so, the ramp closes
behind him. Gort's face is, and always remains, utterly
expressionless. He stops to look at Klaatu, lying on the
ground. Then he looks around at the soldiers, the tanks and
guns. All the guns have been traversing to follow him.
CLOSE SHOT - GORT
From inside him there comes an ominous crackling sound, as
though power were being generated within him. His eyes flash
toward the tank from which Klaatu was shot.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - TANK
There is a great metallic clatter and the Sherman tank is
suddenly reduced to a pile of junk metal, its parts completely
disintegrated. Only a piece of tank track and twisted gun
barrel emerge from the heap on the ground to identify what
had been there. The tank's crew has remained unharmed.
CLOSE SHOT - GORT
The crackling sound continues as his eyes start to sweep in
a semicircle taking in all the troops.
MED. SHOT - THE TROOPS
SHOOTING FROM BEHIND Gort, with the back of his head in f.g.,
CAMERA PANS to follow Gort's sweeping gaze. In a growing
crash and clatter of metal, every weapon in sight is
destroyed. The two machine guns are little heaps of junk.
The 75's are larger heaps. The second tank, like the first,
is a three-foot pile of scrap. Rifles have dropped from the
soldier's hands and lie on the ground as little mounds of
wood and metal. None of the men has been harmed, but their
faces show the utter terror of what they have experienced.
ANOTHER ANGLE - THE TROOPS
as they react to the full shock of what has happened. Most
of them stand rooted to the ground. Several laugh
hysterically. A few break and run wildly.
MED. SHOT - CROWD OF CIVILIANS
Sudden pandemonium breaks out. Utterly terrified by what
they have witnessed, the crowd becomes a wild, milling,
screaming mob, concerned only with escape.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT
He is walking slowly, deliberately, menacingly toward the
tank commander who fired on Klaatu. Standing by the debris
of his tank, the man is immobilized with terror. The robot
starts to reach out to grab him.
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
lying on the ground. He speaks to Gort sharply, in a strange
language.
KLAATU
Gort! Deglet ovrosco!
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT
He pauses obediently in the act of reaching out for the tank
commander. Dropping his arms, he stands motionless and remains
that way.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
He has raised himself to a sitting position on the ground,
his wounded shoulder giving him considerable pain. The two
platoon leaders come into scene hesitantly, badly shaken by
the awesome demonstration of power they have seen. They are
uncertain as to what they should do. The platoon leader eyes
the smashed object on the ground curiously and turns
questioningly to Klaatu. With great dignity, Klaatu picks up
the broken object, which we see well for the first time. It
is a delicately-made tubular telescope, badly smashed. On it
are indications of small electronic gadgets.
KLAATU
It was a gift. For your President.
(glances at the broken
object ruefully)
With this he could have studied life
on other planets.
Klaatu lets the object drop with a shrug of mild exasperation.
The two lieutenants exchange a helpless look of bewilderment.
Then Klaatu raises himself to his feet painfully, holding
his wounded shoulder. As he does so, a colonel and a captain
come into scene.
COLONEL
(to the lieutenants)
Is he all right?
FIRST PLATOON LEADER
Got hit in the shoulder, sir.
The three junior officers exchange ineffectual glances and
look to the colonel, who thinks for a moment before making
his decision.
COLONEL
Send for an ambulance. Get him to
Walter Reed Hospital right away.
CAPTAIN
Yes, sir.
DISSOLVE TO:
Searchlights have lighted up up the eerie shapes of the space
ship and Gort. A circle of soldiers guard the area, while a
crew of men can be seen working around the ship.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT SHIP
A Master Sergeant of Engineers, dressed in fatigues, is
inspecting the side of the ship carefully. He has an acetylene
torch in his had and a welding helmet over his face. The
Major General, previously seen in the hospital sitting room,
enters and speaks to the Sergeant.
GENERAL
Getting any place, Sergeant?
SERGEANT
(raising his helmet)
No, sir.
(shaking his head in
annoyance)
Beats me, General. I saw that ramp
come out of the side of the ship --
right here. Now I can't even find a
crack!
A man named Carlson, a civilian metallurgical expert, comes
into scene. The General nods to him.
GENERAL
What's the report, Carlson?
CARLSON
(discouraged)
We've tried everything from a
blowtorch to a diamond drill.
GENERAL
(nodding toward Gort)
What about him?
CARLSON
He's made out of the same stuff.
THREE SHOT  GENERAL, CARLSON AND SERGEANT
GENERAL
Has he moved?
SERGEANT
No sir. Not an inch
CARLSON
This is the toughest material I ever
saw, General. For hardness and
strength, it's out of this world.
GENERAL
(with a wry half-smile)
I can tell you officially - that's
where it came from.
The two men exchange an uneasy glance, then turn to look at
the ship.
DISSOLVE TO:
CAMERA is on the back of a man dressed in a business suit,
who is walking along the sidewalk of a dimly lighted, almost
deserted, middle-class street. He carries a suitcase and he
glances idly at the drab-looking stone facades of the old
two-story houses. As he passes, from the open windows of the
houses come the voices of radio announcers. We get a sentence
or two from one house and then, as the man and our CAMERA
pass on, this voice fades and another is picked up. We get
the impression that everyone is glued to his radio.
RADIO VOICES
(over scene)
--authorities at Walter Reed Hospital
refused to comment on how he managed
to escape, or what measures might be
taken to apprehend him.
--these fantastic descriptions of the creature are denounced
as rumor by police Chief Walter Baxter. He is not eight feet
tall, as reported -- nor does he have tentacles in place of
arms--
--there's no denying that there is a monster at large --
that we are dealing with forces beyond our knowledge and
power. The public is urged to take ordinary precautions and
to remain calm, as we await further developments--
--three separate reports of people who claim to have seen
the "space man" in the past hour. One from Des Moines, Iowa;
one from a village in northern Florida; and one from Chicago.
CAMERA OVERTAKES the man as he pauses under the light of a
street lamp, and reveals that it is Klaatu. He has stopped
to look at something out of scene.
CLOSE SHOT
from Klaatu's viewpoint, of a sign on one of the houses,
reading: ROOM FOR RENT
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
He seems to hesitate, debating a plan he has in mind. He
raises his right arm to scratch his head thoughtfully, and
notices for the first time a small tag, or ticket, attached
to the inside of the right forearm of the coat he is wearing.
Puzzled, he pulls off the ticket and looks at it.
INSERT - TICKET
It is the sort of tag a cleaning establishment attaches to
clothing. Printed on it is the legend: CAPITOL DRY CLEANING
SERVICE. Scrawled in a penciled hand is the notation: Dr.
Carpenter, Bldg. A - Walter Reed Hospital. Cl. & pr. $1.
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
He smiles wryly at this reminder of where he got the suit,
and he destroys the ticket. He glances down at the suitcase
beside him.
CLOSE SHOT - SUITCASE
It bears the initials L.M.C. Klaatu's hand comes into scene
and lifts up the suitcase. CAMERA HOLDS as Klaatu carries
the bag toward the house and mounts the stone steps to the
entrance.
shooting against one of the huge fluted columns as Klaatu
and Bobby come out of the building. Deeply preoccupied, Klaatu
speaks with impatient urgency.
KLAATU
That's the kind of man I'd like to
talk to.
Bobby looks up at him in bewilderment. After a moment Klaatu
speaks slowly, thoughtfully.
KLAATU
Bobby -- who's the greatest man in
America today?
BOBBY
(puzzling it over)
Gee -- I don't know... The space
man, I guess.
KLAATU
(secretly amused)
I was speaking of earth men. I meant
the greatest philosopher -- the
greatest thinker.
B0BBY
You mean the smartest man in the
whole world?
KLAATU
Yes -- that would do nicely.
BOBBY
(after a moments
thought)
Well -- Professor Barnhardt, I guess.
He's the greatest scientist in the
world.
KLAATU
(he pauses
thoughtfully, speaks
slowly, as he recalls
the newspaper story
he read)
He lives here in Washington, doesn't
he?
BOBBY
Sure. Right near where my mother
works.
KLAATU
Where is that?
BOBBY
Department of Commerce. She's a
secretary.
(Klaatu nods)
They have a man they call the
Secretary, but he isn't at all. My
mother's a real secretary.
(after a moment;
eagerly)
Mr. Carpenter -- now can we go see
the space ship?
A crew of Army engineers is in process of erecting a temporary
structure such as a large Quonset hut or B29 hanger to enclose
the space ship and Gort. The walls are partially up and
already have concealed part of the ship. The area is roped
off and there are Army guards to keep the sightseers back.
There is a crowd of people behind the ropes, watching. CAMERA
MOVES IN to reveal the backs of Bobby and Klaatu.
TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY
Bobby is studying the ship and Gort eagerly, his imagination
thoroughly aroused. Klaatu is watching the men at work with
mild, quiet amusement.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT
from Bobby's viewpoint.
TWO SHOT - BOBBY AND KLAATU
Bobby's eyes are wide with awe as he watches the giant robot.
BOBBY
Boy, I'll bet he's strong. I bet he
could knock down a whole building.
KLAATU
(with a quizzical
smile)
I shouldn't be at all surprised.
Bobby's attention shifts to the ship.
MED. SHOT - SPACE SHIP
From Bobby's viewpoint.
TWO SHOT - B0BBY AND KLAATU
BOBBY
(excitedly, indicating
the ship)
Gee, I'd like to get inside and see
how it works. What do you think makes
it go?
KLAATU
(quietly, after a
glance around)
Well -- atomic power, I would imagine.
BOBBY
(looking at Klaatu
incredulously)
I thought that was only for bombs.
KLAATU
No. It's for a lot of other things,
too.
BOBBY
You think it can go faster than an F-
36?
KLAATU
Yes -- I think so.
MED. CLOSE SHOT KLAATU AND BOBBY
shooting from a side angle to include a couple of men who
are listening to Klaatu's conversation. They are nudging
each other, amused at the way this man is pretending to
explain things to the little boy.
BOBBY
About a thousand miles an hour?
Klaatu has noticed the two men, who have edged a little closer
to listen. He is not perturbed by them, but he lowers his
voice a bit.
KLAATU
Maybe four thousand miles an hour.
And outside the Earth's atmosphere a
good deal faster.
BOBBY
(excitedly)
Gee! How could they make a landing?
KLAATU
Well -- there are several ways to
reduce landing speed. You see, the
velocity--
Klaatu interrupts himself as he realizes that he may be going
too far. The two men have moved closer, listening and
grinning. One of them whispers to the other behind the back
of his hand. Then the man realizes that Klaatu has stopped
speaking and is looking at him.
MAN
(grinning)
Keep goin', Mister. He was fallin'
for it.
The two men burst out laughing and move off together. Bobby,
who has missed the point of this by-play, looks at Klaatu,
then after the men. As they move out of scene they laugh
loudly at the little boy's confusion. Klaatu takes Bobby's
hand to lead him away from the roped-off area.
TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY
CAMERA FOLLOWS them as they move away through the crowd.
As they do so, several newsboys are working their way through
the crowd with newly arrived extras. The boys are calling
out the extras: "Police under fire!" "Army put in charge!"
"Space man still at large!" etc. People are eagerly buying
the papers. Klaatu and Booby watch this as they pass through
the crowd.
CLOSE SHOT - EXTRA
In newsboy's hand. The headline reads: SPACE MAN ELUDES POLICE
ARMY PUT IN CHARGE.
CLOSE SHOT - ANOTHER EXTRA
In another newsboy's hand. This headline reads: DISTRICT
UNDER MARTIAL LAW. CONGRESS ACTS AS POLICE CHIEF REIGNS.
TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY
as they move on away from the excited crowd of people.
Klaatu's reaction has been one of mild curiosity. Bobby looks
up at him.
BOBBY
You think they'll ever find him?
KLAATU
(alter a moment's
pause)
I don't know, Bobby. I'm inclined to
doubt it.
BOBBY
(as they continue
walking)
Mr. Carpenter -- what does velocity
mean?
KLAATU
(preoccupied)
Velocity is the time rate of change
of position.
This explanation misses Bobby by several light years. He
glances up at Klaatu blankly.
BOBBY
I'll bet that's the way Professor
Barnhardt talks.
Pulled out of his reverie, Klaatu glances down at Bobby and
smiles apologetically. Bobby grins back at him. Then, as
they walk on a few more steps, Klaatu stops and speaks
thoughtfully.
KLAATU
Bobby -- I have an idea. Let's go
see Professor Barnhardt and find out
how he talks.
BOBBY
(with a half-smile of
accusation)
You're just kidding, aren't you?
KLAATU
Wouldn't you like to meet him?
BOBBY
Well, sure I would, but --
(he's to be not going
taken in)
Aw, I'll bet you'd be scared.
KLAATU
(with a private smile)
We can scare him more than he can
scare us.
Bobby stares up at him and his face breaks into a broad
admiring grin.
BOBBY
I like you, Mr. Carpenter. You're a
real screwball.
DISSOLVE TO:
The house is an unimposing old-fashioned structure, shouldered
on either side by similar one-family dwellings. There is a
flight of stone steps leading up to the entrance and a large
porch across the front of the house. Klaatu and Bobby walk
into scene and pause, Klaatu glances at Bobby and Bobby nods
toward the house. They move on up the steps to the entrance.
MED. CHOOSE SHOT - AT FRONT DOOR
Bobby, all eagerness and excitement, presses the bell. They
wait a moment and there is no answer.
BOBBY
(disappointed at the
thought)
Gee -- maybe he isn't home.
Bobby wanders down the porch and looks into a window.
Fascinated by what he sees, he gestures to Klaatu.
BOBBY
Betcha this is where he works--
After a glance at the front door, Klaatu joins Bobby at the
window and looks in.
FULL SHOT - BARNHARDT'S STUDY
SHOOTING through the window, over the heads of Klaatu and
Bobby. The room is more of a workroom than a study. It is in
comfortably shabby disarray, with papers and books everywhere.
There's a battered old desk and a day bed. One wall is solid
bookshelves and on the other two are blackboards covered
with a fantastic array of complex equations, graphs and
diagrams.
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
His attention has been caught by one of the blackboards and
he studies it with great interest and curiosity.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - SECTION OF BLACKBOARD
It is covered with a particularly complicated series of
equations in a chalky scrawl, involving angles of vector,
Keplerian ellipses, etc. The final equations are unsolved;
they have no answers after the "equals" sign. Across are
little printed signs tacked to the blackboard reading: "Don't
erase!" and "Don't touch!"
TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY
Bewildered, Bobby looks from the blackboard up at Klaatu.
Still studying the blackboard, Klaatu is shaking his head
and clucking his tonsure as one might at the attempts of a
child to solve a problem in arithmetic.
BOBBY
(indicating the
equations)
What does that mean?
KLAATU
It's a problem in celestial mechanics.
BOBBY
Bet he's the only one in the world
knows the answer.
KLAATU
(he shakes his head,
smiling)
He doesn't know the answer. And he'll
never get it that way.
Bobby moves over to a pair of French doors beyond the window
and tries to peer in through the curtained doors. He absently
tries the doors and finds them locked. Then he turns away
with a disappointed but philosophical shrug.
BOBBY
We probably couldn't get to see him
even if he was home.
As Bobby moves away from the doors dejectedly, Klaatu puts
his hand on the knob.
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY
He's watching Klaatu and his eyes widen at what he sees.
BOBBY
(in complete surprise)
Hey -- where you going?
CHOOSE SHOT - KLAATU
He has opened the door and is standing in the doorway, his
hand, still on the knob. He is smiling at Bobby with secret
amusement. He's got an idea.
KLAATU
If he's that difficult to see, perhaps
we ought to leave a calling card.
Klaatu disappears into the study. Amazed, Bobby follows.
An efficient-looking middle-aged woman is mounting the steps
to the entrance, getting her front door key out of her purse,
when her eye falls on the French doors, which are standing
ajar. Puzzled, she starts down the porch toward the doors.
This woman is Barnhardt's secretary and her name is HILDA.
Bobby is watching as Klaatu writes across the blackboard in
a bold hand: Differentiate the equation ( ).
Klaatu underlines this comment with a sharp stroke, when a
stern voice is heard off screen.
HILDA'S VOICE
What are you doing in here?
FULL SHOT
as Klaatu and Bobby turn in surprise. Standing in the open
French doors is Hilda, eyeing them with stern suspicion.
HILDA
(outraged by Klaatu's
desecration of the
sacred blackboard)
How dare you write on that blackboard!
(Klaatu eyes her mildly)
Do you realize the Professor has
been working on that problem for
weeks?
KLAATU
(pleasantly)
He'll catch on to it in no time now.
HILDA
(controlling herself
with an effort)
How did you get in here? And what do
you want?
KLAATU
We came to see Professor Barnhardt.
HILDA
Well, he's not here. And he won't be
back till this evening.
(sternly)
I think you'd better leave now.
Unruffled, Klaatu turns to the desk
and scribbles something on a scratch
pad. He tears off the piece of paper
and hands it to Hilda.
KLAATU
You might keep this.
(with easy assurance)
I think the professor will want to
get in touch with me.
With a polite nod he goes out the French doors, followed by
Bobby. Hilda eyes the door for a moment, then glances down
at the paper in her hand, disturbed and puzzled by this
stranger. Her glance wanders to the blackboard and she picks
up an eraser, debating whether to erase Klaatu's corrections.
At that moment the French door opens and Klaatu sticks his
head in. Startled, Hilda drops the eraser.
KLAATU
(pointing to the
blackboard)
I wouldn't erase that. The Professor
needs it very badly.
And he disappears, leaving Hilda to glare after him in
impotent rage. Deciding that this man is either a crackpot
or a menace, she goes to the telephone on the desk and starts
dialing a number.
as Klaatu and Bobby come down the steps and turn into the
sidewalk. They are talking and laughing together, but we
can't hear their conversation. CAMERA PANS with them as they
move on up the sidewalk, revealing two kids playing hopscotch.
Klaatu watches, fascinated, as he walks by. Then, having
passed the kids, he tries the one-footed, then two-footed
hop that characterizes the game.
Bobby and Klaatu come out of a wooded path into a section of
the cemetery where the myriad crosses seem to reach into
infinity. They pause for a moment, then Bobby leads the way
through one of the rows.
in one of the many rows are crosses that extend beyond CAMERA
RANGE. CAMERA MOVES IN on one of the crosses. It bears the
name LT. ROBERT BENSON.
TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND B0BBY
as they come into scene and look down at the grave.
BOBBY
That's my father.
(Klaatu glances at
the boy, then nods
understandingly)
He was killed at a place called Anzio.
Klaatu's glance roves out thoughtfully to the infinite rows
of crosses, and his eyes are sad as they return to Bobby.
DISSOLVE TO:
Klaatu and Bobby are approaching a bench beside a pathway
overhung with trees. Bobby leads the way to the bench and
they sit down. Klaatu's eyes stray out to the myriad crosses.
KLAATU
(Reflectively)
Did all these people die in wars?
BOBBY
(somewhat surprised)
Sure. Didn't you ever hear of
Arlington Cemetery?
KLAATU
No -- I'm afraid not.
BOBBY
(very serious)
Mr. Carpenter" -- you don't seem to
know about anything.
KLAATU
(Amused)
I'll tell you, Bobby -- I've been
away for a long time. Very far away.
BOBBY
Is it different where you've been?
(indicating the
cemetery)
Don't they have places like this?
KLAATU
(slowly)
They have cemeteries. But not like
this one... You see, they don't have
any wars.
Bobby looks at him, puzzled and impressed by this
incomprehensible notion.
BOBBY
Gee -- that's a good idea.
His eyes are drawn subconsciously out to the rows of crosses.
Then he turns back to Klaatu with a slow-dawning look of
curiosity, and Klaatu deliberately changes the subject.
KLAATU
What would you like to do this
afternoon?
After a moment Bobby's expression changes and he breaks into
a broad grin.
BOBBY
Go to the movies.
KLAATU
All right.
BOBBY
(he didn't dare hope
for this)
No foolin'? Will you?
KLAATU
Certainly.
(then he hesitates)
Tell me, Bobby -- do you have to
have money to go there?
Bobby gives him a look of amazement, then grins, assuming
Klaatu was kidding and simply hasn't any money.
BOBBY
(eagerly)
I've got some money. My mother gave
me two dollars.
KLAATU
No -- I want to take you to the
movies.
(he takes some objects
out of his pocket)
Do you think they'd accept these?
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU'S HAND
Sparkling in his palm are eight or ten cut diamonds of various
sizes.
TWO SHOT - KLAATU AND BOBBY
The boy is staring at the stones in wide-eyed amazement.
BOBBY
Gee -- those look like diamonds!
KLAATU
Some places that's what people use
for money. They're easy to carry --
and they don't wear out.
BOBBY
(staring at them
fascinated)
Bet they're worth about a million
dollars.
KLAATU
Would you give me your two dollars
for a couple of them?
BOBBY
(with a nervous, unsure
smile)
Well, sure, but--
The boy studies Klaatu's face to see if he's kidding.
Realizing that he's not, Bobby's face takes on a childishly
shrewd expression -- as though he were about to trade a
jackknife for an ocean liner.
BOBBY
(slowly)
Okay.
The boy takes out two dollar bills and offers them almost
challengingly. Klaatu takes the bills and hands Bobby two
good-sized Diamonds. They study their new acquisitions with
interest. Bobby looks up from his diamonds to steal a guilty
glance at Klaatu.
BOBBY
Let's not say anything to my mother
about this, Mr. Carpenter.
KLAATU
(mildly curious)
Why not, Bobby?
BOBBY
(gravely)
She doesn't like me to steal from
people.
DISSOLVE TO:
Shooting toward the curb as a police prowl car drives up and
stops in front of the boardinghouse. A Detective in
plainclothes gets out and gestures to the uniformed Driver
to pull up the street a way and wait. The Driver nods and
the car moves off as the Detective crosses the sidewalk to
the boardinghouse.
As the Detective mounts the steps he glances through a window
into the living room. Klaatu can be seen reading to Bobby,
who is perched happily on the arm of Klaatu's chair. The
Detective moves to the front door ant rings the bell. There
is the sound of running feet and in a moment the door is
opened and Bobby appears.
DETECTIVE
Mr. Carpenter come home yet?
BOBBY
(studying the man
curiously)
Yeah -- he's right inside.
An inexpensive convertible -- a 1948 Ford, or Chevrolet --
drives up and stops in front of the house. Helen and Tom are
in it.
as they come out of the station. Klaatu hesitates a moment,
looks around. His face reveals nothing, but he seems to be
momentarily considering the idea of making a break. The
Detective, sensitive to such a possibility, hooks his arm
under Klaatu's and nods his head toward the sidewalk in silent
command. Klaatu allows himself to be led off.
MED. SHOT
as the Detective leads Klaatu across the sidewalk to the
curb, where a police car is standing. Parked just behind it
is an Army staff car.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - ENTRANCE TO POLICE STATION
as the M.P. Captain appears in the entrance, accompanied by
the Police Lieutenant. They see Klaatu and the Detective
approaching the police car and hurry out of scene after them.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - AT POLICE CAR
LIEUTENANT
(to the Detective)
Wait a minute, Brady--
(indicating orders in
his hand)
The Captain here's got orders from
General Cutler to take this man over
to Professor Barnhardt.
M.P. CAPTAIN
(to Klaatu firmly but
respectfully)
Will you come with me, Sir?
MED. SHOT
as Klaatu gets out of the police car and the Captain escorts
him toward the staff car. Passing the Lieutenant, Klaatu
speaks with a polite smile, a smile that might be one of
mild triumph.
KLAATU
Sorry to trouble you, Lieutenant.
The Lieutenant reacts with impatient exasperation as the
Captain holds the staff car door open for Klaatu, who steps
into the Army vehicle, as we--
DISSOLVE TO:
Klaatu is walking down the dark, semi-deserted street with
the determined stride of a man with a definite objective.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY
Half a block behind, he's following Klaatu, eagerly, flushed
with a sense of excitement and adventure.
DISSOLVE TO:
Walking along the sidewalk, Klaatu turns into a side street,
disappearing from view around the corner. In a moment, Bobby
hurries into scene breathlessly. He pulls up for a moment to
rest. Then, getting his breath, he dashes on around the corner
after Klaatu.
DISSOLVE TO:
This is a temporary structure that has been erected to enclose
the space ship and Gort. In front of the one small door are
two soldiers, standing guard. Concealed in some foreground
foliage, studying the layout, is Klaatu. Nearby 's a sign
reading: KEEP OUT! This area OFF LIMITS to the public. U.S.
ARMY.
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY
He is a short distance away, watching Klaatu eagerly.
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
as he studies the situation.
MED. SHOT
shooting over Klaatu's shoulder. As he watches, a Jeep filled
with armed soldiers -- apparently regular patrol -- drives
up to the entrance of the building. They stop for a moment
while their Sergeant checks with the guards. Assured that
everything is under control, the Sergeant signals his driver
and the Jeep moves off.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
Scanning the side of the building, he sees what he's looking
for. Waiting until the Jeep disappears, he starts toward one
side of the building, keeping himself concealed in the
foliage.
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY
puzzled and interested, as he watches Klaatu.
MED. CLOSE SHOT
The two sentries standing in front of the building.
MED. SHOT
as Klaatu maneuvers around the side of the building, where
there is a window. It has no glass in it but is heavily
barred.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
as he leaves the concealing foliage and crosses the clear,
grassy area surrounding the building. He stops and tries to
see through the window.
MED. SHOT - GORT
shooting through the barred window into the building. The
huge robot looms large and eerie in the shadows cast by a
couple of naked work-lights. His head is angled, away from
the window.
MED. CLOSE SHOT
as Klaatu approaches the window. Aiming his flashlight at
Gort, he flashes the light intermittently, as though
signaling. (This should not approximate any known code.)
MED. CLOSE SHOT - GORT
As we watch, the intermittent flashes of Klaatu's light appear
on the wall ahead of Gort. Slowly, evenly, the robot's head
turns to face the window.
MED. SHOT
from Gort's viewpoint, of the window, with Klaatu's light
flashing its signals.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
shooting on his back, as he finishes signaling and cuts off
the flashlight. He turns ant starts back for the concealment
of the foliage.
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY
craning his neck to look for Klaatu, who has eluded his view.
Suddenly he sees Klaatu again.
MED. SHOT - KLAATU
making his way behind the foliage toward the front of the
building. Arriving at a point opposite the entrance, Klaatu
waits and watches.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - ENTRANCE TO BUILDING
The two guards are standing in the doorway in positions of
relaxed alertness. Suddenly, inside the building behind them,
the giant figure of Gort looms silently in the doorway. His
two great arms reach out, grab the two guards and drag then
back inside the building.
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY
He lets out an inaudible gasp as he sees this. Bug-eyed, he
glances quickly to the point where he last saw Klaatu. He is
amazed at what he sees.
MED. SHOT
from Bobby's viewpoint. Klaatu has emerged from the
concealment of the tree-lined path and is making his way
calmly toward the entrance of the building.
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY
As he watches Klaatu enter the building, his curiosity
conquers his fear and he starts tremblingly toward the
structure.
as Bobby approaches the door, fearful but fascinated. He
peers cautiously inside and his eyes grow wide as saucers.
In *f.g., near the door, the two guards lie unconscious. As
Klaatu walks toward the ship Gort slowly turns his head to
follow him with him with eyes. Klaatu touches a point on the
unbroken surface of the ship and the ramp silently swings
out and down to the ground. Klaatu mounts the ramp and
disappears inside the ship, whereupon the ramp silently
closes.
CLOSE SHOT - BOBBY
as he watches this; his eyes bulging. He can scarcely believe
what he has seen. Suddenly a wave of sheer terror sweeps
over him. Scrambling to his feet, he turns and runs wildly
away.
Cars, taxis and busses are stalled, their frenzied drivers
unable to figure out what's happened. A junk peddler with a
broken-down horse and wagon moves grandly and leisurely
through the stalled vehicles. The peddler bears a happy grin
of superiority. This is his moment of triumph over modern
civilization.
LONG SHOT - TIMES SQUARE
with all traffic stalled.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - TIMES SQUARE
of two cab drivers whose taxis have stalled beside each other
in traffic. One has gotten out of his cab. The other is seated
at his wheel, looking around in awe and terror, his tough
Manhattan heart shaken.
CAB DRIVER
My ol' lady was right. We shoulda
got a place in the country.
LONG SHOT - PICCADILLY CIRCUS - DAY
with all traffic stalled. (It is about 5:00 P.M.)
TWO SHOT - TWO COCKNEYS
standing on the sidewalk, awe-struck at the weird sight before
them. One of them speaks in terror, hardly daring to
articulate his thoughts.
COCKNEY
It's that space man -- that's wot it
is.
LONG SHOT - MOSCOW STREET - DUSK
with all traffic stalled. (It is about 8:00 P.M.)
MED. CLOSE SHOT - TWO RUSSIANS
They are an elderly couple. Staring bug-eyed at the strange
street scene, the woman mutters some terror-stricken comment
in Russian.
LONG SHOT - PLAZA. DE LA CONCORDE - DAY
with traffic stalled. (It is about 5:00 P.M.)
CLOSE SHOT - FRENCH WOMAN
She is middle-aged and there are tears of fright in her eyes.
She is mumbling a prayer in French.
DISSOLVE TO:
at passenger loading gate. A group of passengers is held
back as soldiers close the gate to the runway, preventing
their boarding their plane. The passengers mill about in
consternation as a voice is heard over a p.a. system.
VOICE
Attention, please.... All flights
from National Airport have been
canceled until further notice.. All
flights from this airport have been
canceled.
DISSOLVE TO:
Passengers are being herded off a loaded bus that was
preparing to leave the depot.
DISSOLVE TO:
The Army has thrown a roadblock across a main highway on the
outskirts of the city and is permitting no one to leave.
From the line of halted cars we see and the insistent honking
of horns we hear, we get the impression of hundreds of cars
stacked up.
DISSOLVE TO:
Helen hurries out of the building, hails a cab, gets into it
and the cab drives off.
A jeep filled with armed soldiers is moving down the street
at a fast clip. Behind the jeep is an Army staff car.
MED. CLOSE- SHOT - STAFF CAR
shooting from outside into the car. In the front seat beside
the driver is a full Colonel, wearing helmet and side-arms.
The car is moving swiftly through traffic as the Colonel
speaks into the transmitter of a radio.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - COMMAND AND RECONNAISSANCE CAR
It is filled with soldiers wearing helmets and carrying rifles
and Tommy guns. It is traveling quite fast. A soldier with a
handy-talkie transmits an order to the driver.
MED. LONG SHOT - STREET
The C. and R. car is seen to be at the head of a convoy of
eight Army vehicles which are moving swiftly down the street.
The trucks are filled with armed soldiers.
MED. LONG SHOT - ANOTHER STREET
On this street also an armed convoy is racing by, headed by
a Jeep mounting a .30 caliber machine gun.
MED. LONG SHOT - ANOTHER STREET
On this street also a convoy rolls by.
Helen's cab rounds the corner into the boardinghouse street.
CAMERA PANS with cab as it draws up in front of the
boardinghouse. The cab waits as Helen jumps out and runs up
the steps to the front door. A couple of children are playing
jump-rope in the light of a street lamp.
shooting in at the Colonel as he issues an order into the
radio.
MED. SHOT - ARMY CONVOY
CAMERA FOLLOWS the rear of the convoy as it races down a
main thoroughfare. As the convoy reaches each intersection,
the last vehicle peels off the column and, turns into the
side street.
MED. SHOT ANOTHER CONVOY
racing down another street, the rear vehicles peeling off at
the intersections as in previous scene.
MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION
Following one of the vehicles after it has peeled off into a
side street. It turns around in the side street and draws up
facing the intersection, its motor still running. We get the
impression of a methodical plan to block off each street.)
as Klaatu and Helen come hurrying down the steps and pile
into the waiting taxi. The kids playing Jump-rope stop and
watch as the door is closed and the cab pulls out,
disappearing as it makes a right turn at the end of the
street.
(This is opposite end of street from last shot.) Barreling
across the intersection into the boardinghouse street is the
jeep followed by the Colonel's staff car.
As the Jeep and staff car pull up in front of the boarding
house, the soldiers in the jeep pile out and cover the
entrance to the house. Meanwhile the Colonel, still in the
staff car, is talking to the two kids playing out front.
They chatter excitedly, pointing in the direction taken by
the cab.
shooting over the rear of a jeep which is halted in a side
street facing the intersection. The cab crosses the
intersection and the jeep driver squints to catch its number.
Then he picks up his radio and speaks into the transmitter.
shooting through the window at Helen and Klaatu, who are
growing more tense and nervous.
MED. SHOT - INTERSECTION
shooting over the back of a jeep mounting a machine gun as
the cab passes the intersection. The driver picks up his
radio and reports into it.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - WEAPONS CARRIER
shooting through the windshield as the driver reports by
radio, his eyes shifting to follow the moving cab.
as a convoy of eight vehicles moves down the street going
very fast and swings around a corner.
SERIES OF CUTS
of individual vehicles that have been waiting at
intersections, as they pull out and down the main streets to
converge on the taxi.
MED. SHOT
at a major intersection, as the convoy of eight vehicles
previously seen dashes through the intersection and stops.
The cars quickly arrange themselves so that they form a
roadblock, completely sealing off the street.
shooting down the street from the barricade, as the taxi
stops. Army cars are closing in behind the taxi, so it is
trapped. The cab door ovens and Klaatu steps out, making a
run for the entrance to a pedestrian underpass.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - JEEP
It is one of the lead vehicles in the group coming up behind
the taxi. It mounts a .30 caliber machine gun and, with the
Jeep still moving, the gunner fires a burst at Klaatu.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - RIFLEMAN
He's on one of the vehicles that form the barricade. He takes
a bead on the running figure of Klaatu and fires.
CLOSE SHOT - KLAATU
He has almost reached the underpass. His hand is on the
railing when he slumps to the ground, badly hit. In a moment,
Helen rushes into scene, dropping down to hold Klaatu's head
in her arms. He looks up at her with a feeble smile. Then
his face takes on an expression of urgency.
KLAATU
(weakly, insistently)
Get that message to Gort. Right away--
Klaatu is unable to say any more. He is dead. Helen looks
around wildly, helplessly, with tears and terror in her eyes.
MED. SHOT
as the soldiers pile out of their vehicles and close in on
the place where Klaatu lies. He is their first and all-
important concern, and Helen finds herself pushed out of the
way, toward the edge of the growing crowd of soldiers.
CLOSE SHOT
Shocked and, staggered by what's happened, she realizes she
must get to Gort. Taking advantage of the milling confusion
in the dark, she edges toward the pedestrian underpass until
she can slip into its entrance without being noticed. And
she disappears.
DISSOLVE TO:
The whirring sound can be heard faintly from inside. The two
soldiers standing guard at the door hear the sound and listen
apprehensively. The two men exchange an uneasy glance. After
hesitating a moment, one of them decides to investigate. He
turns and goes inside the door.
Hurrying along a footpath, nervous and distraught, she pauses
for a moment, looking at the entrance of the building. Then
she starts determinedly across the grass toward the entrance.
MED. SHOT
PANNING with Helen as she approaches the entrance fearfully.
Rallying all her courage and determination, she forces herself
to step inside.
as the ramp comes down and Gort steps out. With grim,
determined strides he starts toward the entrance of the
building as the ramp silently closes.
DISSOLVE TO:
shooting from the outside, near the front entrance to the
building, through a window into the main room where the Police
Sergeant's desk is. The Lieutenant who was ordered to guard
Klaatu's cell is excitedly reporting to the Colonel how Gort
broke in and took Klaatu's body. Considerably agitated, the
Colonel snaps orders to the other officers, glances at his
watch and motions for the Lieutenant to follow him. He and
the Lieutenant cross to the door and CAMERA PANS with them
as they come outside the building, hurry down the steps and
get into a staff car. Several other Army vehicles join the
staff car as it roars away from the curb.
DISSOLVE TO:
shooting from the door. In f.g. Barnhardt, who has just
arrived, is greeting several friends outside the door. In
b.g. a staff car and three or four other Army vehicles are
driving up.
MED. SHOT - ARMY VEHICLES
As the convoy pulls up to a halt in front of the building,
the Colonel hurries out of the staff car and moves over to
Barnhardt. Barnhardt is motioning his friends into the
building as the Colonel comes up to him.
TWO SHOT - COLONEL AND BARNHARDT
The Colonel speaks to Barnhardt with deference but with
unyielding authority.
COLONEL
I'm sorry, Professor Barnhardt -- I
have to ask you to call off this
meeting.
BARNHARDT
Call it off? I... But I had permission
from the Army--
COLONEL
I know you did. But the robots on
the loose now and it isn't safe around
here. You'll have to get your friends
out of that building.
