We pan across the city skyline, a beautiful sight -- over
which we hear the CLACKING of computer keys.
Jonathan descends an above-ground subway stop. Neighborhood
streets are vacant, the clopping of his shoes the only sound.
Jonathan turns a corner, heads for a humble duplex, the first
floor marked by unlit neon: "FLEURS DE SOLANGE." He ascends
the steps, his keys out --
WOMAN'S VOICE
(O.S.)
Jonathan!
The voice from nowhere startles him - he spins to find
SOLANGE
(50), a vibrant Haitian woman with a thick accent,
standing in the doorway below, bundled in a ski jacket.
JONATHAN
Solange, you're up so late?
SOLANGE
So early, Jonathan. We open in one hour.
(GRINS)
So tell me, you have been out with a lady
friend, oui?
JONATHAN
(SMILES)
Je suis desole, madame, mais no.
SOLANGE
But why else does a young man come home at
such an hour?
JONATHAN
Just working late, that's all.
SOLANGE
Every night working late, working late.
(teasing him)
Ah, you can't fool me. You are Mister
Mischief maker - I know this! You come by
(CONTINUED)
3.
CONTINUED:
SOLANGE
(CONT'D)
later and pick out something for your lady
friend, oui?
Jonathan hurries in the cold. rain for the Times Square
subway. He's just about to descend - when across
7th Avenue
he spots a beautiful YOUNG WOMAN in a camel hair coat,
clutching a slim briefcase, waiting to cross the street.
Jonathan gazes at her, almost gasping. She's surrounded by
pedestrians with umbrellas., she's the only one without one
and she's DRENCHED. But she seems content to entertain
herself drawing a pattern in the drops collecting on the
umbrella in front of her.
Jonathan watches, intrigued - and then the rumble of the
subway below reminds him he'd better move.
10.
Jonathan stands in the exact spot where he first saw "S".
He buys a New York Times and a hot-dog.
Pedestrians and theatre crowds pass by as he remains rooted
to the spot,.hoping he'll see that face in the crowd.
After a while he shakes his head at the ridiculousness of it
and heads down into the-subway.
Along the entire square of ledge, throngs of SUITED BUSINESS
TYPES bundled in scarves eating street vendor fare. It's here
we find Wyatt and Jonathan, having a quick bite.
WYATT
I wonder what the Founding Fathers would
make of this scene.
Wyatt regards face after face of young men and women wearing
expensive suits, wolfing down lunch so they can get back to
work - a good 2/3 of them talking on cell phones as they eat.
JONATHAN
I'm just glad to be outside.
(awkwardly heartfelt)
I've got to tell you, this has been great,
meeting up for lunch. I used to just-
A cell phone RINGS. They both instinctively reach in their
jackets, take out their identical phones. It's Wyatt's that's
ringing. Jonathan rests his down on the ledge.
WYATT
Yes?... Shit. Okay, see if you can.gettme
on the 6:15
out of JFK tonight... Fine.
Wyatt rests his phone on the ledge next to Jonathan's.
WYATT
Rutherford needs me to join him asap in
London to paper some financing with
Lloyds. I tell you about this?
JONATHAN
No - no you didn't.
WYATT
Yeah, I should be gone a few weeks.
Jonathan tries to mask the wave of loneliness setting in.
JONATHAN
Sounds exciting.
WYATT
Nah, it'll be boring as sin.
(CONTINUED)
26.
CONTINUED:
Wyatt studies him a moment, grabs his cell phone and rises
from the ledge.
WYATT
Shit, I'd better get back. You ready?
Jonathan trudging home. He descends into the subway.
Jonathan exits to good tidings from the BELL STAFF. Lost in
his thoughts, it takes him a moment to respond.
He starts to walk. His cell RINGS. He answers.
JONATHAN
Hello?
WYATT'S VOICE
Hey, you're up early!
JONATHAN
Hi! How's London?
WYATT'S VOICE
Raining. So you've got mine-and I've.got
yours?
JONATHAN
Yeah. Listen, last night...um...I met this-
WYATT'S VOICE
Damn! Sorry, I'm gonna have to call you
back, they want me in a meeting. Hey, no
long distance calls, okay!
Wyatt hangs up. Jonathan shakes his head, amused. He hails a
cab, glances back at the hotel. His lips curl into a vaguely
proud, if still dazed, smile.
32.
Jonathan walks the carpet-draped sidewalk toward the entrance
- then pauses, looks around in recognition of this same spot
where Wyatt had gotten out of the cab that night.
JONATHAN (V.0.)
I've got a feeling you did. You dog! I can
see you grinning right now.
Jonathan returns the BELL STAFF's chipper greetings and steps
inside --
JONATHAN
(V.0.)
Anyway, I just wanted to say... thank you.
SOUNDTRACK MUSIC SWELLING: to herald a MONTAGE:
Jonathan arrives at his building's steps to find Solange
hurrying out of her flower shop. She embraces him warmly.
SOLANGE
Jonathan, for so long I don't see you!
JONATHAN
J'ai ete tres occupe. with work.
He's exhausted. And no longer so exhilarated by his nightly
activities.
SOLANGE
Work? No, no. You believe you can trick
me, Mr. Mischief Maker! I want to meet
this lady friend of yours.
Jonathan is about to protest -
SOLANGE
Ah., ah
- ecoutez, I have beautiful winter-
roses, just. arrived. She.will swoon...
Jonathan smiles, but there's a reticence to it.
JONATHAN
Maybe later, okay?
SOLANGE
There is no later when it comes to love!
If you find it, you must not let it go.
(CONTINUED)
39.
CONTINUED:
Jonathan nods absently, continues up the steps
- when she
tugs his sleeve. He turns to her; she searches his eyes.
SOLANGE
There really is no one?
Jonathan evasively shakes his head.
SOLANGE
There should be, Jonathan. It is not good
for a young man to be too much alone.
He gives her an uncomfortable smile. She smiles back, but as
she heads inside, she looks both-sad and worried for him.
Jonathan continues up the steps, opens the front door and
disappears inside. We remain on the vacant street, hear his
FOOTSTEPS climbing the steps - and then the muted RING of his
cell phone. A beat, then another...
.and the front door opens again as Jonathan steps back out
into the night.
Jonathan arrives at the subway station. He's a little anxious
now, still hasn't heard from her. He lingers at the top of
the stairs, not wanting to descend. Below him he can hear the
lonely roar of a train pulling in below.
only when the train quiets down does Jonathan realize his
cell phone is ringing. He picks up.
JONATHAN
Hello?
Intermittent static on the other end. And then what sounds
like a WOMAN GASPING; it's unclear if it's a sound of
pleasure or pain.
JONATHAN
.Hello?
The Gasping comes faster; Jonathan debates hanging up - when
the gasps halt,--replaced by the faintest whisp__of_ a female
voice: "No... No please..." There's no mistaking the tone now
it's fear - then. suddenly a shrill, terrified SCREAM...
- and the line goes dead. Jonathan stares breathlessly at the
phone in his hand, like he's just witnessed something awful.
He quickly checks the display: "Number Unavailable."
Jonathan looks panicked with the possibility that it was "S"-
- when the phone rings again. He hesitates, then picks up.
(CONTINUED)
50.
CONTINUED:
"S"
(V.O. FROM PHONE)
(COYLY)
Are you free tonight?
Jonathan exhales in relief on hearing her voice.
Jonathan stands on a corner, looking out of place amidst the
glistening neon and bustle of Asian faces. He peers anxiously
down the.street, checks his watch, all anticipation
-
- when something is wrapped around his eyes. He's startled,
tugs it off and spins to find "S" smiling back at him.
if S I'll
I bought you a present.
She drapes the scarf around his neck. It's all striped,
bright colors
- all the more funky against his dark suit.
I knew it. You look smashing.
JONATHAN
Sure you don't mean "clashing?"
She laughs
- then notices how tense he seems.
,/S
Are you all right?
JONATHAN.
I guess. I got a call-before yours
- I'm
not sure if it was real, or if it was even
meant for me - but there was a woman who
sounded like she was being - I don't know,
hurt. Maybe worse.
"S" seems instantly on edge. Something about this scares her.
If SIP
You don't know who she was?
JONATHAN
(shakes his head)
It could've been a prank.
(notices).
Now you're the one who looks scared.
..S
No, it's just
- it sounds creepy, that's
all.
(CONTINUED)
51
CONTINUED:
She shakes it off, mustering a smile as she takes his arm.
S
Come on.
A makeshift street market, everything from fish and meat to
cheap electronics for sale in cramped stands. Jonathan and
"S" walk arm in arm through the packed crowd, like a couple.
Jonathan looks like we've never seen him before: a
fascination with everything around him, especially her.
They pause at a stall selling cheap trinkets, including a
small metallic wind-up toy of a duck riding a bicycle.
S"
He's so cute! What's his name?
VENDOR
(DEADPAN)
Duck On Bike.
"S" beams like it's the greatest name ever.
Jonathan and "S" step out into pouring rain, pause under the
shabby awning. Waiters inside are putting chairs on tables.
She fishes in her coat and pulls out a PACK OF GUM. The
wrapper is entirely in Chinese. She offers him a piece.
JONATHAN
Oh - no thanks.
JIS.11
Don't let the wrapper intimidate you. I
buy it at a store nearby. It has ginseng
in it, you know, for energy. It's not bad,
though it sort of tastes like hairspray.
She chews her gum. He watches her; the jaw line, her lips.
She looks at him and smiles, but there's something behind it:
a sadness. Almost an uneasiness.
JONATHAN
Hey, are you all right?
"S
I don't want to complicate your life.
JONATHAN
Too late.
-- I want all the complication
you've got.
She gazes at him, blinks back her emotions.
it Sc,
Your glasses. They're fogging up.
She reaches out and gently removes his glasses.
(CONTINUED)
55.
CONTINUED:
She wipes the lenses, then peering into his eyes, slowly
leans in to return them to his face... only she presses her
lips to his instead, the glasses still in her hand, the kiss
itself at once tender and passionate.
She absently lowers her hand, lost in the unexpected
intensity of the kiss. Embraced, they accidentally step under
the sheet of water falling off the awning. Jonathan guides
her back beneath the awning's shelter.
At S is
(breathless whisper)
Maybe you should go...
JONATHAN
Maybe you should stay.
She smiles as he kisses her even more passionately. Again
they feel the awning's drops, and Jonathan moves to shelter
them -
- only "S" leans into him instead, leading him out from under
the awning, the falling rain suddenly drenching their faces
as they continue to kiss, the moment purely exhilarating.
wiping the rain from her face, Jonathan gazes at her, soaked
and utterly beautiful, with something akin to awe - like he's
just breathed for the very first time.
Rack focus on a hotel down the street, its neon sign reads:
"Hotel Lotus."
Jonathan climbs up to the landing, fishes in the dark for a
boot. He tips it, a SPARE KEY falls out. As he starts back
down, he feels something in his coat pocket. He reaches in,
finds "Duck On Bike" where he'd pocketed it.
Jonathan emerges from underground to hectic Chinatown. What
once felt romantic now feels cold and exclusionary, a
bustling mix of ASIANS and map-clutching TOURISTS. He surveys
the area,-overwhelmed, eyes searching for anything resembling
a clue. Foreign faces return only cold, blank stares.
(CONTINUED)
66.
CONTINUED:
Jonathan pauses by a STREET VENDOR, takes from his pocket the
GUM WRAPPER he found in the hotel, shows it to the vendor...
Jonathan is struggling with his stiff new key, hearing his
PHONE RINGING inside.
Jonathan exits behind Russo as they step onto the sidewalk.
RUSSO
I figured it was a long shot. The only
reason I called you down is she was last
seen with a man in the bar of the Hudson
hotel.
JONATHAN
(suddenly tenses)
The Hudson?
RUSSO
You mentioned this group of yours meets up
at various hotels. I thought it was worth
a shot.
Russo glances up at him, trying to read him - something about
his reaction not sitting right with her.
(CONTINUED)
69
CONTINUED:
RUSSO
Mr. Messer, is there anything else you
want to tell me?
Nervous and torn, Jonathan manages to shake his head.
Jonathan exiting the morgue, talking low into his cell phone.
JONATHAN
Wyatt, it's me. I need to talk to you.
Call me, OK? Please.
Jonathan stumbles out, breathing hard as he tries to grapple
with this
- when he slams up against a man's shirtfront. Two
hands grasp his arms, we glimpse a pair of black wingtips
-
- and whip tilt up to the papery face of "Herr Kleiner"
(aka
Mr. Moretti).
"HERR KLEINER"
Sono spiacente.
Jonathan runs out from the subway station. Determined, he
walks down Canal street, his eyes suddenly land on a COPY
SHOP across.
TIGHT ON JONATHAN as we see something click in his head -
A series of shots: Jonathan asking around about "S." The
street vendors. The receptionist at the hotel. The waiter at
the restaurant where they ate... They all shake their heads.
Heading back for the subway, dejected, he steps on.a
discarded page from the newspaper's Metro section, sees a
headline: "STILL NO SUSPECT IN MURDER OF YOUNG EXEC." The
photo is of Simone Forester.
79.
Jonathan exits, starts toward the sidewalk -- but hears
something: sandpaper SHUFFLE of shoes on pavement. Be spins
--
No one there. Just one of many large stone pillars adorning
the building. Jonathan peers anxiously at the pillar,
wavering. He steps closer, trying to glimpse behind it -
RING! of his cell-phone breaks the stillness. RING... RING...
He catches his breath, quickly picks up. A silent beat.
A WOMAN'S VOICE
(O.S.)
Are you free tonight?... Hello?
He hangs up, chilled. Turns again to the pillar, steps closer
- no sound. He hesitates... then turns and walks off.
Jonathan is heading for the Clute Nichols building, that same
focused tension on his face -
WOMAN'S VOICE
Mr. Messer?
Jonathan is too lost in thought to hear it.
WOMAN'S VOICE
(CONT'D)
Jonathan.
(CONTINUED)
86
CONTINUED:
He glances up... to find Russo standing near the entryway -
what's she doing here? He has no choice but to meet her.
RUSSO
I was gonna call, but I was in the area.
Just doing some follow-up.
Jonathan tries to mask his uneasiness.
JONATHAN
Follow-up?
RUSSO
On that missing girl of yours. The.one
whose name began with. an "S." Have any
luck finding her?
Jonathan absently tightens his grasp on his briefcase.
JONATHAN
No. No luck.
RUSSO
I see. That's too bad.
she studies him a cryptic beat, then smiles flatly.
RUSSO
Well, who knows, maybe she'll turn up yet.
You have a good day, Mr. Messer.
Jonathan nods tensely, then walks off, feeling her watching
him from the curb as he goes.
Bundled in her ski jacket, Solange is closing up her shop for
the night, stacks of flowers in her arms, when she notices
Jonathan coming down the front steps.
SOLANGE
Jonathan, you're home early -
Only when he looks up, she finds the young man in the
overcoat isn't Jonathan. It's Wyatt.
SOLANGE
Oh - je suis desole. My mistake.
Wyatt flashes her an icy smile, continues down the steps.
Solange watches him walk away, a puzzled look on her face.
(HELL'S KITCHEN)
- LATE NIGHT
Porn shops and prostitutes, the streets pulsing with a
sinister energy. Jonathan is pacing toward the subway,
reading over the printed article.
Jonathan descends the steps to his presently deserted
neighborhood. O.S. the departure of the subway train is
joined by the distant.wail of SIRENS.
Jonathan continues down the block, then pauses. He wrinkles
his nose, smelling something. He looks up: two blocks away, a
thick plume of smoke is billowing up into the sky --
Jonathan bolts around the corner to find an ambulance and
fire engine curbside -- a fire raging in the lower story of
his building!
Running toward the blaze, he speeds past a BLACK BMW parked
across the street, engine running. It suddenly shifts into
gear and peels out in a fast turn. Jonathan spins
- something
about it troubling him - but the BMW is already gone. He
continues racing toward his building...
The neon "FLEURS DE SOLANGE" sign crackles and sparks in the
flame. Through blown out windows, piles of burning flowers
emit what must be an awful stench.
Two EMS WORKERS are loading a gurney on which Solange lays,
burned and half-aware, but alive, when Jonathan rushes over.
She manages to open her eyes, her voice barely audible:
SOLANGE
Jonathan...
He squeezes her hand as she's lifted into the ambulance.
JONATHAN'
(to EMS worker)
Is she going to be okay?
EMS WORKER
Yeah, she'll make it.
(CONTINUED)
94.
CONTINUED:
The ambulance doors SLAM shut. A hand grabs Jonathan's arm.
He spins
- it's a FIRE WORKER.
JONATHAN
I live here.
AS SEEN FROM THE CONVEX MIRROR OF AN ATM MACHINE: we watch
from an ANONYMOUS POV Jonathan racing out of the bank.
99.
91ST STREET
Jonathan rounds the corner at a jog, checking awning numbers,
finally halts on one: "140
E.
91st."
Jonathan comes out the building putting the envelope in his
suit pocket.
As he crosses the street a CAR HORN BLARES - WHIP AROUND to
find a car barrelling at us. Jonathan dives out of the way an
instant before the car would have hit him.
Face first in the gutter, scraped and gasping, Jonathan peers
up to see Wyatt's BLACK BMW speeding away.
CUT TO:
Abeautiful shot of the cityscape - accompanied by the sound
of fingers clacking on keys...
An elaborate and intensely packed WEDDING PARTY is being held
up here beneath the glow of heat lamps, the music and crowd
noise unspeakably loud. We travel through the din, past
hundreds of well-heeled partiers, mainly young and wealthy.
The party noise is even slightly audible
30
stories below,
where we find Jonathan carrying his bag as he enters...
Only the party 30 stories above remains oblivious: music
still blasting, the upscale throngs still partying.
112.
The party is still at full throttle. Apparently no one has
yet told them of the alarms.
CLOSE ON A STAIRWELL DOOR MARKED "EMERGENCY EXIT" as it
suddenly bangs open and Jonathan and "S" spill out.
They pause a moment - thrown by the sight of all the wealthy,
beautiful faces, laughing, dancing.
JONATHAN
Come on!
She grabs his hand, and they waste no time disappearing into
the mass of bodies.
They keep moving. Shoulder to shoulder within the swell of
partiers, they fit right in - instantly anonymous
- though
not as smartly attired.
BACK TO THE STAIRWELL DOOR as Wyatt enters the party,
scanning the dense crowd, all senses alert.
INSERT WYATT'S POV: just a mass of successful, attractive,
partying young men and women. There's no way to pick Jonathan
and "S" out.
Wyatt's smirk fades to an icy glare as he stalks the
periphery.
WITHIN THE CROWD "S" clutches Jonathan's hand, their heads
ducked low as they press forward...
CLOSE ON WYATT, frustration gnashing at him as he quickens
his pace, the idiotic enthusiasm of the crowd enraging him,
sweat beading on his face
--
-- when suddenly the music stops. Wyatt frowns., eyes darting.
CLOSE ON JONATHAN AND "S" glancing around in confusion -
SECURITY
(DISTANT U.S.)
Ladies and Gentlemen, we need everyone to
evacuate the hotel. This way please.
(CONTINUED)
CONTINUED:
The crowd noise resumes, as the throngs begrudgingly start
for the exits.
ON JONATHAN AND "S," doing their best to stay concealed
within the exiting crowd.
Angle on Wyatt pushing his way through the crush, shoving
people aside, trying to find them -
- when he suddenly stops. He has an idea. He takes out his
cell phone.
BACK TO JONATHAN AND "5" within the crowd -
- when Jonathan's cell phone RINGS.
CLOSE ON JONATHAN as his eyes widen in panic.
RING... He quickly fumbles for it, tries to turn it off
-
- but it's too late... WHIP ACROSS THE CROWD to Wyatt,
grinning wider. He's spotted them. In an instant he is bee-
lining through the packed suits.
WIDE SHOT OF THE ROOFTOP as the throngs are clearing out.
Jonathan grabs "S" as they duck, racing across the dark,
rooftop, looking for a place to hide.
They take cover behind a large venting duct near the ledge -
gasping to catch their breath... Stepping back, "S's" foot
clinks against something: a stray iron railing post.
She reaches. down for it, starts to lift it -
- when Wyatt's hand darts in and grasps the other end.
She looks up in terror - when Wyatt punches her violently,
knocking her to the ground.
Jonathan rushes to her - only to be blocked by Wyatt,
gripping the iron rod tight.
WYATT
Nice try back there, Jonathan. Looks like
you picked up a thing or two from me.
Jonathan tries to strike him - when with a lightning quick
movement Wyatt whips the iron rod through the air, cracking
Jonathan across the face.
WYATT
Killer instinct, pall
(CONTINUED)
117.
CONTINUED:
Jonathan crumples, his glasses knocked to the ground.
CLOSE ON WYATT as he grips the iron rod like a tennis
racquet, steps into position
-
- and brings the rod down on Jonathan with ruthless tennis
strokes: Backhand! Bam! Forehand! Bam! Slice! Bam!
Jonathan can barely peer up, bloody and beaten. He hears
Wyatt drop the iron rod...
JONATHAN'S POV: Wyatt's blurry figure hovering above suddenly
swoops in on us
-
- as Wyatt grabs Jonathan by the throat, hefts him up and
yanks him back to the roof's concrete ledge. Jonathan fights
to struggle free - when Wyatt jams the gun under his chin.
Jonathan freezes.
JONATHAN
(GASPING)
They'll... catch... you...
WYATT
Me? No - no, I'm just a face in the crowd.
I'm a tourist, just passing through.
JONATHAN'S POV: Wyatt's face presses closer, now almost in
focus as he presses Jonathan's torso back over the ledge -
WYATT
As for you, you had your fun...
Wyatt presses closer, crushing Jonathan's back to the edge.
WYATT
Now we're going to go back down...
INSERT JONATHAN'S HAND reaching into Wyatt's pocket, his
fingers fumbling for the cell phone
(Jonathan's old phone).
WYATT
We're going to get that laptop...
CLOSE ON JONATHAN'S FINGERS blindly prodding - he has the
phone now - his fingers feel for the antenna...
WYATT
And we're going to finish this, once and
for -
- when with all his strength Jonathan jams the cell phone up
into Wyatt's eye, the antenna punching into the retina.
(CONTINUED)
118
CONTINUED:
Wyatt's grasp slips from Jonathan's collar as he stumbles
back, cupping a hand to his wound as he swings his gun toward
Jonathan -
- when with every ounce of strength Jonathan charges, Wyatt's
shot missing him as Jonathan slams him into the ledge wall,
seizing the momentum to turn himself -
- as Wyatt falls right over the edge of the hotel rooftop...
(WIDE SHOT)
.Wyatt's body plummeting down the magnificent facade,
vanishing into the vastness of the city below.
CLOSE ON JONATHAN as he crawls to the ledge, peers down into
the darkness. He exhales, then turns back to "S"
-
- to find she's right beside him, grateful tears in her eye.
She leans into him, and he holds her tight, the two of them
embraced on the precipice as we
DISSOLVE TO:
Strobed reds and blues of police and fire.trucks amassed,
trying to control the throngs of guests and pedestrians
blocking our view of the body they're all gawking at.
We travel through the confusion until we find JONATHAN AND
"S" sitting side by side on the sidewalk curb, each propped
against the other.
The 'shock of it all is beginning to fade. He reaches into his
pocket and hands her 'Duck on Bike'.
JONATHAN
Yours, I believe.
01S.11
Thanks, Frank.
She winds the toy up. They watch it make it's funny way down
the sidewalk.
JONATHAN
Can I ask you something personal?
She nods.
(CONTINUED)
119.
CONTINUED:
JONATHAN
What's your name?
"S" considers the request, then smiles gently, leans in close
and whispers the answer in his ear. Jonathan gazes at her a
moment - whatever her name is, it must be perfect.
JONATHAN
So what now?
She smiles up at him.
S
Well... are you free tonight?
On Jonathan: treasuring these moments. He is truly free --
perhaps for the first time in his life.
JONATHAN
Yes. I'm free.
They gaze at each other.
We leave Jonathan and "S" to their privacy, pulling back as
they continue talking, continuing away until we're
THROUGH A WINDOW AND INSIDE THE HOTEL ITSELF
the window itself now a frame, letter-boxing the scene,
people passing like fish in their tank... except for Jonathan
and S, seated center-frame, two small figures side by side,
face to face, talking intimately as we.
FADE OUT.
THE END
Deception
Writers : Mark BombackPatrick Marber
Genres : CrimeDramaMysteryRomanceThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb