The Clippers-Knicks game plays on the car radio now. Driver is
only half listening, focused on the road. We see his face in the
passing neon lights. Feline good looks. Impassive blue eyes.
Something almost melancholy in his unwavering gaze. He drives
carefully, letting other cars overtake.
Driver glides into the parking lot of another low-rent apartment
block.
2
9/24/10
Driver's back on the road, the basketball game still playing on
the radio. He drives past a row of brightly lit Mexican food
shacks on Silver Lake Boulevard and turns into a run down garage
lit up with a neon sign - Shannon's Picture Car Warehouse -
vintage cars.
The basketball game is approaching the end of the third quarter.
Driver's behind the wheel of the Impala now, cruising past rows
of dingy toy stores on 3rd Street. He glances at his watch. It's
9:50. He checks his mirror then turns into a side street.
A vast electronics superstore dominates the deserted street.
Under the pale yellow glow of the street lamps, Driver sees
signs advertising a `huge blow out weekend sale'. He pulls over,
making sure he has a good view of the entrance. On the radio,
the basketball commentator is getting more excited.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY
...This is some comeback from the Clippers!
Only a few minutes ago they looked dead and
buried!...
Driver reaches under the seat and pulls out a small handheld
scanner. He switches it on, tuning it to the right frequency.
Crackling police dispatches are interspersed with the basketball
commentary now.
POLICE SCANNER
...9 Adam 81, what is your current
location?...Repeat, what is your current
location?...
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY
...Another unbelievable three pointer from
Davis and the Clippers are within five!...
Out of the corner of his eye Driver sees two MEN approach. He
doesn't react, expecting them. They cut through the fence with
bolt cutters and approach the main building. Driver watches them
pull on their masks, then one of them takes out a shotgun and
blasts the lock to the front door. Instantly the alarm shrills.
The only thing Driver does is to turn on his stop watch.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY
...Time out Knicks...
The stop watching keeps ticking away, the siren blaring, the
commentary continuing, the police scanner crackling.
The storefront is hidden in shadow, impossible to tell what's
going on inside. Driver looks at his stop watch. Almost three
minutes. One of the masked men emerges now, carrying a duffel
bag. He hurries over and gets in the back of Driver's car
without a word. There's no sign of the other robber.
(CONTINUED)
4
9/24/10
11 CONTINUED: 11
The commentary continues, so does the crackling on the police
scanner. Four minutes. Still no sign of the second armed robber.
His companion in the back starts to look nervous, wondering
what's happened to his partner.
Driver doesn't betray a hint of nerves. Four and half minutes on
his stop watch. Thirty seconds more and he's on his way.
Suddenly the second robber appears from the shadows, running as
fast as he can to the getaway car. He jumps into the back seat a
few seconds short of five minutes and Driver screeches off.
Driver thunders over the 1st Street bridge towards Boyle
Heights, then eases his foot off the gas, slowing to a steady
speed. In the back seat the two armed robbers rip off their
masks, looking pumped up with adrenalin. Driver studies them in
his rear view mirror, then swerves right on Mission Street as
his police scanner crackles to life.
POLICE SCANNER
...Attention all units...211...Superstore
on Traction Avenue...Suspects headed
Eastbound on 1st Street...Driving a Silver
Impala...
Driver swings sharply into 4th Street now, crossing the L.A.
River again, heading back in the same direction he came.
POLICE SCANNER
...Airships dispatched...Downtown and Boyle
Heights...All units standby. Repeat, all
units standby...
Up ahead, the lights of Downtown L.A. glitter against the night
sky. Hovering between the neon green glow of the skyscrapers
Driver sees the red and white glint of a police helicopter. He
switches off his headlights, turning left on Santa Fe Avenue.
The armed robbers watch in tense silence as Driver weaves in and
out of the industrial alleyways with his lights switched off.
It's as if he's trying to find his way out of the maze or
probing to see if there's anyone out there.
POLICE SCANNER
...1 Baker 11, headed south on Boyle
Avenue...No sign of suspects...Repeat, no
sign of suspects...
The armed robbers look relieved when suddenly a police car
glides past at the end of the alleyway, its lights also off.
(CONTINUED)
5
9/24/10
13 CONTINUED: 13
It's like catching a glimpse of a passing shark's fin. Driver
taps the brakes gently, his car sliding to a stop. He stays
there a moment, then eases the Impala forward, turning in the
same direction as the black-and-white.
It's a high-risk strategy but Driver follows the black-and-white
at a distance, hidden in the darkness, knowing other squad cars
won't be checking the same route. The police car makes its way
through the dimly lit industrial zone, unaware it's being
shadowed. Driver turns his car radio up a whisper.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY
...And for the first time in the game the
Clippers have the lead. 71 to 69. Seven to
go in the Fourth here at the Staples
Centre...
Driver turns the sound back down. Up ahead, the police car
swings left, disappearing from view. Driver slows down too,
anticipating the next obstacle. He doesn't have long to wait. In
the distance he suddenly sees the piercing beam of a police
chopper's search-lights, sweeping the area one more time.
Driver floors the gas, speeding straight towards the approaching
helicopter. The armed robbers are too stunned to protest. They
just sit there, watching the sweeping searchlights getting
closer and closer.
Then suddenly it becomes clear what Driver's doing. Up ahead,
there's a small underpass below the 7th Street bridge. Driver
slides the car under the safety of the bridge just before the
chopper's searchlights spot them.
The roar of the helicopter thunders overhead. The underpass is
crammed with dirty mattresses and shopping carts. Sleeping HOBOS
can be seen under dirty blankets. Driver waits for the echo of
the helicopter to fade, then moves forward again.
Gloomy yellow street-lamps shine down on the industrial zone.
Rows of delivery trucks are parked outside the meat-packing
factories. Driver cruises cautiously down the deserted street.
The crackling of the police scanner and the droning of the
basketball commentary add to the tension. Finally up ahead he
sees car-lights streaming back and forth on Broadway.
DRIVER
Get down...
(CONTINUED)
6
9/24/10
16 CONTINUED: 16
The armed robbers lie flat on the back seat, paying Driver more
respect now.
There's a steady flow of traffic on Broadway. Driver falls in
behind the other cars. On the radio, the basketball game is
still playing.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY
...Three thirteen left on the clock.
Dunleavy calls a time out and it's the
Clippers by one...
The passing head-lamps light up Driver's face. There's not a
trace of emotion in his eyes -- even when he spots a patrol car
approaching in the opposite direction.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY
...Buckle up your seat belts Clippers fans.
This game really is too close to call...
The two cars pass each other slowly. Driver sees the cops in the
Black-and-White peering at the Impala as they head past. He
turns down the basketball game and focuses on the scanner.
POLICE SCANNER
...This is 1 David 16...Silver Impala
headed South on Broadway and
Pico...Couldn't get a look at her license
plates...Appears to be only one occupant...
In the back seat, the armed robbers wait nervously for the
police dispatch to respond.
POLICE SCANNER
...1 David 16...why don't you check her
out...
As soon as he hears this Driver swerves sharply into the next
street.
Driver guns around the block now, building up speed.
POLICE SCANNER
...This is 1 David 16...We lost the suspect
somewhere between Broadway and
Grand...Possible evasive action...Request
airship and additional units...
7
9/24/10
Driver bursts out onto Pico now. A squad car headed in the
opposite direction slows down as it sees him but is caught up in
the flow of traffic, unable to turn round and give chase.
POLICE SCANNER
...1 David 11...suspect headed West on
Pico...
Driver threads his way through the vehicles in front of him, so
smooth and effortless it's hard to tell how fast he's going. He
glances up as he hears the dull rumble of a police chopper
overhead. The helicopter is almost directly above him, swinging
its search-beam back and forth to get a lock on his position.
Driver pushes the car as fast as it will go, but there's no way
of outrunning the chopper. Blue light floods the asphalt around
him as he guns down Figueroa.
POLICE SCANNER
All units...pursuit in progress...silver
Impala...Headed North on Figueroa...
Even now Driver doesn't panic, turning his attention back to the
basketball game.
BASKETBALL COMMENTARY
Thornton pulls up from behind the arc,
misses. Rebound New York. One eighteen to
play...
Driver swerves sharply towards the sparkling lights of the
Staples Centre.
The terraced parking lot looms up ahead. A sign above the
barrier says `Season Ticket Holders Only'. Driver punches in a
ticket and roars into the parking lot.
Outside the parking lot, the police are waiting, stopping
anything that looks like an Impala, shining their flashlights
into the windows. Wearing his Clippers cap and a Clippers
sticker on his new car, Driver calmly drives past them, making
his getaway.
DISSOLVE TO:
Driver's face is fixed ahead, sunglasses hiding his eyes. As we
PULL OUT we see to our surprise that he's wearing a policeman's
uniform. It's only as we pull out further that we see several
other `POLICE OFFICERS' sitting in the same fold up chairs,
reading car magazines and scripts as they're powdered by MAKE-UP
GIRLS, and realize we're on a movie set.
Driver glances up from his script and sees another STUNTMAN
being fitted with an SFX mask. The stuntman now looks identical
to the STAR of the movie who stands nearby.
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR O/S
I need you guys to sign this contract...
Driver takes the form along with all the other stuntmen and
signs it without a glance.
Shannon is discussing a car stunt with another AD, using two toy
cars on the hood of a cop car to demonstrate the danger.
(CONTINUED)
9
9/24/10
24 CONTINUED: 24
SHANNON
...This is a whole new thing. He taps the
fender any faster than fifty not only will
she roll, she'll roll all the way to Baja.
Driver heads off, disinterested in the negotiations.
SHANNON
A high risk stunt like that's worth at
least a thousand five.
AD
They won't go higher than a thousand.
SHANNON
Done.
For all his charm we sense something of the hustler about
Shannon.
Driver approaches a buffet table laid out with food. He's about
to help himself when JACK, the caterer, stops him.
JACK
Sorry, that's for the director...
Driver sits at the wheel of the Black-and-White while a STUNT
SUPERVISOR checks his harness. Shannon leans into the window
with a smile.
SHANNON
I managed to get them up to five hundred.
Driver doesn't seem to care, focussed on the job.
2ND UNIT DIRECTOR O/S
Camera ready, sound ready...
Shannon joins the rest of the crew, looking on.
2ND UNIT DIRECTOR O/S
...ACTION!...
Driver floors the gas, screeching out of the alleyway. He
swerves between several oil drums then straightens up on the
main road.
In his rear view mirror he sees a black Dodge Charger appear on
cue, bearing down on him.
(CONTINUED)
10
9/24/10
26 CONTINUED: 26
Driver slows to forty, like he's supposed to, but the black
Charger keeps coming at speed.
Driver's eyes stay fixed on his rear view mirror, judging the
other car's speed and angle of approach to perfection.
The Charger slams into the back of Driver's car at sixty miles
an hour, hitting him just above the left rear wheel.
Driver's reactions are quick as lightning, counter-steering as
his Black-and-White goes careening off the road. He keeps the
car upright long enough to slow it down before it finally flips
end over end.
Up ahead, the Charger skids to a showy stop.
2ND UNIT DIRECTOR O/S
...And CUT!...
Some clapping and cheering breaks out, but most the crew
couldn't care less, returning to their cell-phones and shot
lists. Only Shannon seems interested in Driver, limping over and
helping him out of his battered Black-and-White.
SHANNON
Nice work, officer...
Driver spits out some fake candyglass from the shattered
windscreen.
Bright sunlight. In the distance we see a trail of dust moving
across the flatland. Everything is silent, then slowly the hum
of an engine rises as the stock car turns towards us. It
shimmers in the heat waves, the noise of its engine getting
louder as it picks up speed.
Shannon stands with his friend Bernie Rose at the edge of the
makeshift track, staring at the glittering car with its colorful
signage advertising everything from Snickers to Cheerios.
BERNIE ROSE
Looks like a chocolate bar. You're gonna
have to tell me if that's fast or slow
`cause I got no idea...
Shannon smiles to himself.
SHANNON
It ain't slow...
15
9/24/10
The glinting vehicle is lost in a cloud of dust, then reappears
again, moving even faster now. The STOCK CAR'S OWNER, a bearded
hot-rodder with a t-shirt that says, "Drive it like you stole
it", joins Shannon with a confident smile.
STOCK CAR OWNER
Told you she was a beauty...
SHANNON
(Playing hard to get)
Maybe where you come from...
Bernie Rose pays no attention to their banter, his eyes fixed
thoughtfully on the stock car as it finally slows to a stop.
Driver climbs out of the car. As he looks up he sees Shannon
limping over with the stock car's owner, a couple of MECHANICS,
and Bernie Rose.
SHANNON
Looks a little long in the tooth to me.
Think we should take her home?...
Driver shrugs. Shannon grins, turning to Bernie now.
SHANNON
Bernie, this is the driver I been telling
you about...
One look at Bernie Rose and Driver senses the power and
authority behind his deceptively gentle eyes.
SHANNON
Bernie's thinking of investing in our race
team...
The old mobster holds out his hand, meeting Driver's gaze.
DRIVER
My hands are a little dirty.
BERNIE ROSE
Don't worry. So are mine...
(CONTINUED)
16
9/24/10
33 CONTINUED: 33
He gives Driver a big grin and a warm handshake, sizing him up.
Driver smiles politely, gazing back at him. The stock car's
owner interrupts the moment between them, holding a stopwatch.
STOCK CAR OWNER
Couldn't see much wrong with that. You beat
the fastest lap by more than half a second.
DRIVER
You might wanna take a look at the
suspension before we go again.
(Turning back to Bernie)
Nice to meet you...
Bernie's still studying him.
BERNIE ROSE
You too...
Their eyes stay on each other, then Driver follows the stock car
owner and his mechanics back to the car. Bernie Rose stares
after him quietly, thinking to himself. Shannon can feel he's
getting interested.
SHANNON
You gonna give me the four?
BERNIE ROSE
I'll give you three for seventy percent...
Driver heads out of the supermarket with a small bag of
groceries when he spots Irene and Benicio again in the car park.
Irene sits in a battered Oldsmobile, trying to start the engine.
She tries several times then gets out in frustration, opening
the hood and peering at the engine she has no idea how to fix.
Benicio peers in too, trying to be helpful.
(CONTINUED)
17
9/24/10
35 CONTINUED: 35
Driver hesitates, all his instincts telling him to continue to
his car and drive away, but as he feels Irene's increasing
frustration he can't help himself, finally heading over to help.
Irene looks over and sees him coming, surprised at first, then
smiling. We watch from a distance as they talk now.
Passing traffic roars by on the busy street. Irene and Benicio
are walking home from the bus stop, chatting happily. They look
like they've just come back from the beach, Irene carrying a
basket full of towels, Benicio clutching a dusty soccer ball.
Driver watches them from the window of his apartment, blowing
gently on a cup of coffee.
The reflection of passing neon rolls down the Camaro's
windscreen. Driver's cruising down Hollywood Boulevard, shut off
from the world outside, listening to `Purple Rain'. The HOOKERS
and HIPSTERS have taken over the streets while up above
airbrushed movie stars stare down from their lofty billboards.
It's early morning and Driver's been driving all night, unable
to sleep. He heads across the parking lot towards a garishly lit
mini-mall. Up ahead a small group of GANGBANGERS are hanging out
with intent. They see him coming and look over intimidatingly.
Driver's only reaction is to bunch his car keys in his hand, the
longest key sliding between his second and third fingers like a
weapon. The gangbangers don't see it but the unflinching look in
his eyes unnerves them and they look away, letting him pass.
Jukebox music plays in the bar and grill. Driver sits on his
own, working his way through a plate of bacon and eggs.
BEARDED REDNECK OFFSCREEN
Mind if I cut in?...
Driver looks up and sees a burly REDNECK with an unkempt beard
and a wrestler's physique. The redneck slides into the seat
opposite him.
BEARDED REDNECK
You're Shannon's buddy, right? We met last
year. You drove me and my brother back from
Palm Springs...
(CONTINUED)
21
9/24/10
41 CONTINUED: 41
Driver stares into the redneck's coked-up eyes, then looks back
down at his food.
BEARDED REDNECK
Next run we hired another wheelman - I
spent six months in jail, my brother got
himself killed...
(He grins through yellowing teeth)
He wasn't much, mind you, just family...
Driver doesn't seem to hear him.
BEARDED REDNECK
Thing is -
DRIVER
I'm not interested...
Driver looks up quietly, fixing him with his icy gaze. The
Redneck's smile slowly fades. He considers his response for a
moment, then decides against it, standing up.
BEARDED REDNECK
Well, it's good to see you again...
Driver carries on eating as if the man didn't exist.
The loud stutter of an unhealthy engine. Shannon sits in the
second hand race car he bought in Montecito, revving the engine.
SHANNON
Sounds like a goddamn M-16...
Driver smiles, popping the hood. As Shannon limps out of the
vehicle he sees a battered Oldsmobile drive into the forecourt.
He takes one look at the owner, then runs his hand through his
white hair, breaking into a friendly smile.
SHANNON
Gorgeous day just got even nicer. How can I
help you, ma'am?
WOMAN'S VOICE O/S
I've got a problem with my car.
SHANNON O/S
I can imagine. That thing must be older
than I am...
Driver turns around in surprise now, recognizing Irene's voice.
(CONTINUED)
22
9/24/10
42 CONTINUED: 42
IRENE
Hi...
DRIVER
Hi...
A mischievous smile lights up Shannon's face as he watches them.
SHANNON
You boys and girls know each other?
IRENE
We're neighbors.
SHANNON
I see...
Driver ignores the sly look in the old man's eyes.
SHANNON
So what seems to be the problem, ma'am?
IRENE
Either it doesn't start or it stalls.
SHANNON
Well, why don't we park her over there and
take a look...
Driver is still watching Irene quietly.
IRENE
I can come back later if you're busy...
SHANNON
He's busy, I'm not...
Shannon gives Driver another sly look as he takes her car keys.
The Oldsmobile's engine looks like it hasn't been serviced in
years. Shannon is bent over the hood.
SHANNON
...Just my opinion, but I think you should
consider buying a new car...
IRENE
(With gentle irony)
That would be great...
She glances round and sees Benicio standing in the forecourt
with Driver, watching him work on his own car now.
(CONTINUED)
23
9/24/10
43 CONTINUED: 43
Driver's so busy tuning the engine he hardly notices the boy.
His lack of interest finally gets a rise out of Benicio.
BENICIO
That thing doesn't work.
DRIVER
(Without looking round)
You think?
Benicio watches him sullenly, more intrigued than he lets on.
BENICIO
Drive it.
DRIVER
Okay. Get in the car...
Benicio considers a moment, then turns and calls out to Irene.
BENICIO
Mama, can I go in the car?!
Irene looks over in surprise, not sure what to say.
Driver and Benicio sit in the Chevelle, driving in silence.
DRIVER
Your mom said you like movies?
BENICIO
Sometimes.
DRIVER
Ever see the Terminator?
BENICIO
No.
DRIVER
Grease?
Benicio shakes his head.
DRIVER
Wanna see where it was shot?
The car roars along the drainage canals. In the passenger seat
Benicio looks tense but exhilarated. The car glides past a
landscape of abandoned shopping carts, garbage bags, and
shredded tires, picking up speed all the time.
Driver's parked the car now in an area of the drainage canal
which looks like an oasis. He leans against the vehicle, soft
rock playing on his radio as he watches Benicio climb a tree.
Irene emerges with Benicio from the dentists. The little boy is
clutching his mouth, making a show of being in pain. Irene
teases him gently as they walk. Driver waits for them in his
car, watching them quietly.
The roar of machinery. We see quick shots of Driver's day in the
garage -- fixing cars, taking out some fruit he's left to ripen
in his tool box for lunch, working on more engines and frames.
At the end of the day Driver and Shannon examine the stock car.
SHANNON
...I still can't believe I bought this
piece of shit...
(CONTINUED)
26
9/24/10
53 CONTINUED: 53
He grins, looking at Driver.
SHANNON
I thought maybe we'd take her for a run
Thursday or Friday.
DRIVER
I can't make Friday.
SHANNON
Yeah? Why's that?
DRIVER
I told Irene I'd drive her to Burbank.
SHANNON
Irene, huh?
(TEASING HIM)
You're seeing quite a lot of the young
lady.
DRIVER
You're taking a long time to fix her car...
Irene sits next to Driver in the passenger seat, staring out of
the window at the glittering fountain in Echo Park.
(CONTINUED)
28
9/24/10
55 CONTINUED: 55
IRENE
I've never come this way before...
DRIVER
It's a short cut...
IRENE
The park looks pretty at night...
She looks at Driver, watching him quietly, then looks away
again.
DRIVER
You okay?...
Irene takes a long time to answer, still staring out of the
window.
IRENE
That was my husband's lawyer on the phone.
He's getting an early release...
She tries to sound casual. Driver takes the news quietly, even
though it hits him like a sledgehammer.
DRIVER
That's great...
IRENE
I'm happy for Benicio...
Driver knows she's trying to explain herself but doesn't say
anything, driving in silence.
Up ahead the traffic lights turn red and the car slows to a
stop.
Inside, the silence is unbearable. Irene pauses, then looks at
Driver. He's even more handsome in the shadowy half-light,
something achingly lonely and melancholy about his stillness.
She hesitates, then moves her hand towards his, brushing the
back of his hand, then slipping her fingers between his.
The gesture is tiny but charged with emotion. They both stare
out in silence, fingers clasped, then Irene gently withdraws her
hand, as if nothing's happened.
Outside the lights change to green.
Brooding movie stars look down from the billboards. Driver is in
his car now, soft rock playing on the radio.
Anonymous streets roll by, Driver's eyes fixed on the road.
33
9/24/10
Driver joins Standard in the forecourt of the garage, the midday
sun blazing down on them.
(CONTINUED)
36
9/24/10
67 CONTINUED: 67
STANDARD
Irene told me you'd fixed our car. How much
do I owe you?
DRIVER
Don't worry about it.
STANDARD
I do worry. I like to pay my debts.
Driver senses the quiet pride in his voice, and lets it go.
DRIVER
Call it fifty.
Standard counts out some bills from his tattered wallet, his
eyes lowered.
STANDARD
I was thinking of trading her in for a new
car. Something fast and cheap.
DRIVER
You can't have both.
STANDARD
Alright then, fast.
Even though he smiles Driver senses just a hint of tension on
his handsome face.
DRIVER
(Pointing to a car)
Something like that Buick over there'll
cost you nine grand but there isn't much
point in a city where you can't drive
faster than sixty five.
Standard considers the car a moment, something clearly bothering
him, then looks back at Driver.
STANDARD
You must think I'm an asshole?
Driver isn't sure what he's getting at.
DRIVER
I wouldn't know.
STANDARD
Well, I am. Six months inside for holding
somebody else's stolen shit...
He smiles ironically, his gaze still fixed on Driver.
(CONTINUED)
37
9/24/10
67 CONTINUED: (2) 67
STANDARD
I appreciate what you did for my family
when I was away but I don't plan to fuck up
a second time...
It's a thinly veiled message that he's back and here to stay.
Driver stares back at him when Shannon emerges from the garage
with Bernie Rose and Nino, calling out.
SHANNON
Hey, kid! Come say goodbye, the money
people are leaving!...
Driver and Standard stare at each other a moment longer then
Driver breaks off.
DRIVER
Excuse me.
STANDARD
See you around...
Driver walks off, leaving Standard alone with his thoughts.
Shannon watches Standard curiously as Driver approaches.
SHANNON
Who was that?
DRIVER
Irene's husband.
SHANNON
(GRINNING)
What did I tell you about married women?
Nino can't resist another dig at Shannon.
NINO
What the fuck do you know about married
women?
BERNIE ROSE
Can you for once say something without the
word fuck in it?
As they continue their banter, Driver glances at Standard. He's
walking back to his car, dialling someone on his cell phone.
Passing traffic blurs past. Through the windows of a Mexican
restaurant we see Irene at work, serving tables in her
waitress's uniform.
(CONTINUED)
38
9/24/10
68 CONTINUED: 68
Driver's parked across the street, watching her from his car. He
hesitates, conflicted, then finally gets out of the car.
Driver leans out of his car window and inserts a key to open the
gates of the underground car park.
As Driver descends into the darkness of the car park, he sees a
group of SHADOWY FIGURES walking in the opposite direction,
heading up the ramp, one of them being pushed in a wheelchair.
Their leader, a large, balding man, (COOK), glances in Driver's
direction then looks away.
Driver cruises past the mysterious group and winds his way
further down the car park. Suddenly he notices something else in
the shadows. A figure lies sprawled against one of the pillars.
A smaller figure kneels a few feet away. Driver stops his car
now, climbing out to see what's happened.
The prone figure groans in pain. As Driver approaches he
realizes it's Standard. His face is covered in blood and he
clutches his ribs. The smaller figure is Benicio. He stares at
his father helplessly, then looks up at Driver in tears. Driver
kneels beside Standard, checking nothing's broken.
DRIVER
Can you move?
STANDARD
Where's Benicio?
DRIVER
He's right here...
Driver glances at Benicio. He looks terrified. Standard raises
his head painfully and looks at his son.
(CONTINUED)
40
9/24/10
72 CONTINUED: 72
STANDARD
It's okay, Benicio. I'm okay...
Driver watches the boy struggling to hold back his tears.
STANDARD
(GENTLY)
Don't say anything to your mother, you
understand? This is between you and me.
Benicio nods, too choked-up to speak. Standard turns to Driver.
STANDARD
Can I use your bathroom to clean up? I
don't want Irene to come home and see me
like this...
An outdoor food shack in a park. COOK, the leader of the group
of men who beat Standard up in the parking lot, sits at a table
with his girlfriend, BLANCHE, a stunning blonde with short
cropped hair.
COOK
I've got you to do this fucking job for me,
why do I need to pay someone else?
Standard sits next to Driver, holding his ground even though
he's clearly intimidated by the Albanian.
STANDARD
I'll pay him out of what's left of my
share. I can't do something like this on my
own.
(CONTINUED)
43
9/24/10
76 CONTINUED: 76
COOK
You got Blanche...
He grins, looking at Driver now. Blanche doesn't even seem to
hear them, hung-over from the previous night.
COOK
You look like you're hard to work with?
DRIVER
Not if we understand each other.
COOK
What's to understand? It's my score. Either
you sign on or you don't.
Driver stares at him quietly, finding it hard to conceal his
contempt.
DRIVER
I drive. That's all I do.
Blanche gets up from the table before Cook can respond.
COOK
Where are you going?
BLANCHE
They've forgotten my Coke.
COOK
They'll bring it. Sit down.
(His eyes still fixed on Driver)
Standard, why don't you hire a fucking taxi
cab?
STANDARD
He didn't mean it like that, man...
Standard looks worried, trying to diffuse the tension.
COOK
So, what does he mean?
Driver looks him calmly in the eye.
DRIVER
You tell me where we start, where we're
headed, where we'll be going afterwards. I
don't take part, I don't carry weapons, I
drive...
Standard seems surprised by Driver's professional patter. So
does Cook. Even Blanche looks interested for once.
(CONTINUED)
44
9/24/10
76 CONTINUED: (2) 76
COOK
Standard, get Blanche her coca cola.
Standard hesitates, but has no choice. As he leaves to fetch
Blanche her drink, Cook starts to write something down on the
palm of his hand.
COOK
Okay, here's the deal. This much for
Blanche, this much for that asshole minus
what he owes me, and this much for you...
He holds up the palm of his hand to Driver, the words Fuck Off
written in marker pen.
COOK
You still interested?
Driver looks at him, all his instincts telling him to walk away,
but he stays where he is, thinking of Irene and Benicio.
COOK
Good. Anything else?...
Driver stares back at him with his clear blue eyes.
DRIVER
We do this job he's paid his debt. You
leave him and his family alone...
Cook looks surprised at first, then laughs at his nerve.
COOK
Whatever you say, boss...
The midday sun beats down on a maze of cars. Driver strolls past
rows of glittering vehicles until he spots an old model Mustang.
The pawn shop is nothing much to look at from the outside,
another anonymous LA store front. Driver's parked the car a
hundred yards from the entrance, his police scanner crackling.
Standard sits beside him in the passenger seat, looking tense.
DRIVER
You don't have to do this.
STANDARD
(Forcing a smile)
What are you talking about?
He tries to make light of it but doesn't sound convincing. Out
of his window he sees Blanche cross the street and enter the
pawn shop and looks even more nervous now.
STANDARD
Irene and Benicio think the world of you,
you know that, right?...
Driver glances at him, sensing his anxiety.
STANDARD
Say something happens to me, you think you
could find a way to take care of them?...
Standard's still staring ahead, but Driver can sense his fear.
(CONTINUED)
48
9/24/10
81 CONTINUED: 81
DRIVER
It's not too late...
Standard considers a moment, then shakes his head.
STANDARD
I gotta do this for them...
He forces a smile, slips on his sunglasses, then finally opens
the door.
DRIVER
You got five minutes...
STANDARD
(GRINNING)
I'll see you in four...
Driver watches him cross the street with a strong sense of
foreboding. Standard enters the pawn shop. Driver starts his
stopwatch now, listening to the seconds tick away.
He casts his eyes around the street, observing the smallest
details -- the number plates of other vehicles; the windows of
overlooking buildings.
The white hot sun blazes down, reflecting on the pawn shop
windows, hiding everything inside.
The police scanner crackles but picks up no activity. Driver
listens to his stop watch, in his own world. He starts the
engine and sets off, cruising slowly past the pawn shop, heading
for the corner where he told Standard he'd be waiting.
He pulls over by the curb when suddenly he notices something.
Parked a hundred yards down the road he sees another vehicle
glinting in the sunlight. To the ordinary eye it's no different
from the other cars parked nearby, but to Driver it stands out.
For one, it's a Chrysler. Secondly, it has reinforced bumpers
and racing tires.
Driver's stopwatch shows four minutes now. He looks away from
the Chrysler, gazing at the doors of the pawn shop, expecting
Standard and Blanche to burst out at any moment.
But there's no sign of them.
The seconds tick away. Five minutes. Driver hesitates, all his
instincts telling him to drive off, but he stays where he is,
thinking of Irene.
Suddenly he sees Standard and Blanche emerge from the pawn shop,
Standard clutching a big black gym bag in his hand.
(CONTINUED)
49
9/24/10
81 CONTINUED: (2) 81
He smiles at Driver as he approaches when suddenly he hears the
crack of gunshots behind him. Driver sees the look of panic on
his face as he spins around.
A GUY IN A SUIT strides out of the pawn shop. Crouching low in
an expert firing position he squeezes off several shots. The
force of the bullets sends Standard flying.
Driver sees him hit the sidewalk, arterial blood pumping from
his neck. Blanche screams, grabbing the gym bag and leaping into
the back seat of the car. Driver hesitates, takes one last look
at Standard's lifeless body, then hits the gas as more gunshots
crack behind him.
As Driver's car roars down the street, the Chrysler suddenly
comes to life, pulling out of its parking place.
Driver glances in his rear-view mirror and sees the Chrysler on
his tail. It doesn't seem to be trying to close the gap, just
following at a discreet distance. In the back seat, Blanche zips
open the gym bag, then stares in shock.
BLANCHE
...Christ, there wasn't supposed to be this
much money!...
There are literally stacks of hundred dollar bills crammed
inside the gym bag. Driver catches her reaction in the mirror,
but his attention is focussed on the Chrysler. Up ahead, at an
intersection, the lights turn red. Driver thinks about running
them, but decides against it, braking sharply. The Chrysler
draws up beside him, its windows glinting in the sunlight.
BLANCHE
Move for Chrissakes!...
Driver ignores her, still watching the Chrysler out of the
corner of his eye. The lights change to green but Driver doesn't
move. Nor does the Chrysler. Behind them, other cars start
honking their horns. Suddenly Driver roars off, swerving left at
speed.
The Chrysler reacts, screeching off in pursuit.
Driver floors the gas. On speed and power his vehicle may be no
match for the Chrysler, but in traffic the odds are even. He
weaves his way past the slower cars, putting obstacles between
himself and the Chrysler. The pursuing car matches him move for
move, staying on his tail.
In the back seat, Blanche looks terrified, buckling herself in.
(CONTINUED)
49A
9/24/10
82 CONTINUED: 82
Driver swerves left then suddenly makes a hard right onto a
deserted canyon road. The mustang somehow manages to make
the same turn. It gets close enough to "pit" Driver, its nose
pressing against the rear corner of Driver's vehicle.
Driver's almost run off the road, but manages to save it and
regains control of his car.
The Mustang pulls out wide to build momentum and smash into
him. As it moves in to deliver the knockout blow, Driver
pulls the Emergency Brake and spins 180 degrees, causing the
Mustang to miss and lose control for a brief moment.
Now the two cars are nose to nose, barrelling down the road,
Driver heading in reverse as fast as he can, the Mustang
closing fast.
It rams Driver's front bumper. BAM! The two cars separated
for an instant.
The Mustang guns it, ready to smash into Driver again...
Driver clocks an upcoming three way intersection dotted with
construction equipment. In a last ditch attempt to evade his
pursuer he throws a reverse 180, then incredibly keeps going,
spinning 270 degrees.
The Mustang tries to make the same turn, but this time the
maneuver is beyond his ability. Driver's suckered him into a
corner he can't control.
The Mustang crashes into the construction equipment in a
sickening crunch of metal on metal.
Driver guns the motor and speeds away.
50
9/24/10
Purple neon spills onto the forecourt of a seedy motel.
Driver hesitates, then dials a number on his cell-phone. Benicio
answers.
BENICIO'S VOICE ON THE PHONE
Hello?...
Driver hears the tremor in his voice.
DRIVER
Benicio?...
BENICIO'S VOICE ON THE PHONE
Yeah?...
DRIVER
Is your mom there?...
(CONTINUED)
51
9/24/10
85 CONTINUED: 85
There's an uncomfortable silence. Driver can feel the little boy
trying to hold it together.
BENICIO'S VOICE ON THE PHONE
She's talking to the police...
(INTERCUT)
Driver leans against his car, talking on Cook's cell phone.
DRIVER
I could, but your boss won't be happy when
he finds out you've kept him waiting...
Tan Suit looks curious now.
TAN SUIT
Can I ask what this is about?
DRIVER
I have something that belongs to him.
TAN SUIT
And that would be?
DRIVER
A million dollars...
There's a pause on the other line now.
TAN SUIT O/S
Please hold...
Driver hears a heavy chesty voice come on the line.
(CONTINUED)
60
9/24/10
102 CONTINUED: 102
NINO O/S
You have something that fucking belongs to
me?...
The voice is unmistakable. Driver stares quietly.
DRIVER
Seems that way...
(INTERCUT)
NINO
And you're calling me why? You expect me to
buy my fucking stuff back from you?...
DRIVER
I'm not selling. I give you a time and
place, you come collect your stuff...
NINO
And what do you get out of it?...
DRIVER
Just that. Out of it. You put a muzzle on
Cook, forget your zombies at the Motel,
forget we ever had this conversation...
Nino's thinking to himself, looking more concerned than he
sounds.
NINO
Your partners happy with that?...
DRIVER
I don't have partners...
NINO
You discuss this with anyone else?
DRIVER
Just you...
Nino begins to relax now, still calculating.
NINO
You're not very good at this, are you?...
DRIVER
This isn't what I do. I'll call again with
instructions...
Driver switches the cell phone off.
61
9/24/10
Shannon gets out of his car. Driver is waiting for him by his
own car, silhouetted against the streetlight. Shannon stares at
him a moment, then notices the blood stains on his shirt.
(CONTINUED)
66
9/24/10
108a CONTINUED: 108a
SHANNON
What happened?
DRIVER
Nino's guys came after me. How did they
know about Irene?
Shannon takes a moment to reply, looking dazed.
SHANNON
I called Bernie...I asked if he could help.
Him and Nino are like brothers. I told him
you weren't interested in the money, that
you only did it for the girl...
(From the heart)
I wanted to make sure once you returned the
money that was the end of it...
Driver doesn't seem to hear him.
SHANNON
Let me talk to Bernie again. They probably
didn't listen to him -
DRIVER
It's too late...
Shannon says nothing now, knowing he's right.
DRIVER
They're gonna come after you to find me.
You have to leave...
Shannon takes this in slowly.
SHANNON
What are you gonna do?...
Driver doesn't answer, but from his silence Shannon can guess.
SHANNON
How the fuck did this happen? We're
supposed be in Charlotte or Daytona
drinking champagne out of trophies and
getting laid by pit lizards...
He stares at Driver with quiet regret.
SHANNON
Fuck...
109 OMITTED 109
67
9/24/10
The CREW are setting up for their first shot of the day. In the
background we see a DIRECTOR blocking out an action scene.
Driver walks past without even a glance, heading towards the
make-up trailer. He opens the door and walks in, looking around
the trailer until he finds what he's looking for -- the SFX mask
he saw previously on the film set.
A loud knocking. Bernie Rose's neighbor opens his door.
HUSBAND
Yeah?
BERNIE ROSE
Bernie Rose, next apartment over -
HUSBAND
Yeah, I know. I'm kind of busy here.
BERNIE ROSE
I heard...
There's something threatening in the old mobster's eyes now. The
husband moves to close the door but Bernie jams it open with his
elbow, shoves him aside, then looks over at the wife.
BERNIE ROSE
You all right, Shonda?
The woman nods without meeting his eyes.
HUSBAND
Get the hell out of my -
Bernie doesn't give him time to finish, clamping a powerful hand
on his throat.
BERNIE ROSE
What's your fucking name?
HUSBAND
LENNY -
BERNIE ROSE
I'm a patient man, Lenny, not much for
getting in other people's way. What I
figure is, we've all got our own lives,
right? And the right to be left alone?
(SQUEEZING HARDER)
So I sit next door for almost a year now
listening to what goes down in here and I
keep thinking, hey, they'll work it out.
You gonna work it out, Lenny?
(CONTINUED)
74
9/24/10
111b CONTINUED: 111b
He jerks the husband's neck forward, making him nod.
BERNIE ROSE
You're lucky to have her, lucky she's put
up with you this long. Lucky I've put up
with you. She has good reason: she loves
you. I don't have any reason at all. So
stop raising your voice or fucking move...
He lets go of the terrified man and storms out again.
Sunlight glints on the parked vehicles by the curb. Driver slows
down as he approaches the sign for Shannon's Custom Kings,
glancing out of the window to see if anyone's staking out the
garage. Satisfied there's no-one there, he drives through.
Driver's car roars out of the garage.
Two big Lincoln Towncars are parked outside. Across the road we
recognize Driver's car. He opens the trunk. When he closes it
again we see that he's wearing the eerily convincing SFX mask.
He crosses the road, entering the pizzeria.
75
9/24/10
Nino emerges with his bodyguards now, heading towards one of the
white Lincolns.
NINO
(To one of his men)
I'm going to pick up my wife. I'll meet you
there...
Across the road Driver climbs into his car, still wearing the
mask. He starts his car, setting off after Nino's Lincoln.
The sunlight is fading fast. The neon cityscape has come to life
and the streets are a sea of glittering lights.
The streets are less crowded in this residential area. As the
car in front of Driver pulls into its front drive, Driver takes
the next turning, making sure the Lincoln doesn't spot him.
76
9/24/10
The Lincoln turns back into traffic on San Vincente.
The sun has almost set, the red backlights of the cars blinking
in the fading light.
Both cars head into Entrada Drive.
77
9/24/10
From above we see Driver's car gliding along the open highway,
the rising hills on one side, the churning ocean on the other,
no vehicles in sight.
The headlights of Driver's car sweep ahead of it on the open
road. From above it looks like a shark closing in on its prey.
Even from above we can't see Driver's car with its lights off -
no idea how close it is to Nino's car.
The impact is momentous. The huge Continental is lifted up in
the air and spun round at the same time. It slams back into the
tarmac then flips end over end for a hundred yards.
Driver gets out of his car, calmly walking over to the
pulverized Lincoln. He sees Nino stumbling off towards the beach
but doesn't hurry after him yet. He checks to make sure the
other passengers are dead, then heads on.
Nino stumbles through the sand, running for his life now. He
looks behind him and sees Driver calmly pursuing him. He keeps
running, but he's badly injured, slowing all the time. Fear
clouds reason and he staggers towards the crashing waves.
Driver slows down as he watches the gangster wade into the
ocean, a pathetic last attempt to evade him. The crashing waves
and the undertow are an impenetrable wall. Every time Nino tries
to wade out further, the ocean drags him back.
(CONTINUED)
80
9/24/10
156 CONTINUED: 156
Driver stares at his trapped prey. Nino's attempts become more
and more feeble as the ocean exhausts him and snuffs out any
hope of escape. Finally he retreats back into the shallow water,
barely able to keep his footing. He turns around and faces
Driver, the crashing waves still smashing into his back.
They stay like that for a moment. Gazing at each other. Driver
silhouetted against the white sand. Nino trapped in the ocean.
Then Driver wades out into the water. Nino has no fight left in
him, staring at the masked man. Driver stares back at him then
grabs him by the throat, forcing his head under the water. Nino
splutters as Driver lets him up again.
NINO
It was Bernie...Bernie Rose killed your
friend not me...
Driver shoves his face back under the water, keeping it there
until Nino's body finally stops thrashing.
Driver is no longer wearing a mask, framed against the ocean. He
catches the veiled threat in Bernie's words but doesn't respond.
INTERCUT
BERNIE ROSE
I'd say this has gone far enough. See any
reason why it should go on?...
DRIVER
Doesn't have to...
(CONTINUED)
81
9/24/10
158 CONTINUED: 158
BERNIE ROSE
Then we should talk. You know a place
called the Great Wall -- out on Sherman
Way?
DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE
I can find it.
Bernie pauses, staring out.
BERNIE'S VOICE ON THE PHONE
I'll see you there at one.
A charged silence, then the line goes dead.
159 OMITTED 159
Driver's car is parked at the back of the parking lot, half
hidden by a fenced area for garbage. Driver pops the trunk,
taking out the black gym bag with the cash. Bernie Rose doesn't
even look at it, still admiring the car.
BERNIE ROSE
How much does something like this cost?
DRIVER
Nine, ten thousand. If you can find one
that still runs.
(CONTINUED)
84
9/24/10
161 CONTINUED: 161
BERNIE ROSE
Maybe I'll take yours. Part of our deal.
He grins, then holds out his hand for the gym bag.
BERNIE ROSE
Guess we won't be seeing each other again..
Driver reaches out to give him the bag, when suddenly Bernie's
hand snakes out of his pocket, twisting a switch-blade into
Driver's gut. He pulls it out, ready to stab again, but this
time Driver catches his wrist, slowly forcing the knife up to
his throat.
Their eyes are fixed on each other for a moment, with something
like regret, then the blade pierces Bernie Rose's neck, sinking
deeper and deeper. Driver holds the old man in his arms as he
dies. They stay like that, locked in a fatal embrace, then
Driver lowers Bernie Rose gently to the ground, out of sight.
Blood seeping through his shirt, Driver picks up the gym bag and
puts it back in the trunk, slamming the door shut.
We're looking down on an enormous parking lot, hundreds of
different colored vehicles gleaming down below. Driver pulls
into the lot, searching for a place to park.
Driver climbs out of his car, wearing a jacket over his blood-
soaked shirt. He walks to the back of the car, kneels down, and
hides the keys behind the left rear wheel, drops of blood
dripping on the tarmac beneath him. He gets up again, then sets
off through the maze of parked vehicles, dialling a number on
his cell-phone.
Irene and Benicio sit in the park.
IRENE
(Picking up her phone)
Hello?...
(INTERCUT)
The blazing sun beats down. Driver walks through a long corridor
of glinting cars.
DRIVER
It's me...
(CONTINUED)
85
9/24/10
164 CONTINUED: 164
Irene stares in surprise.
DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE
Don't hang up...
She says nothing but stays on the line.
Driver continues painfully through the maze of cars.
DRIVER
You got a pen? I need you to write
something down...
Irene looks confused as she hears the quiet urgency in his
voice, then reaches inside her handbag.
Sunlight glitters on the roofs of the parked cars, dazzling
Driver's eyes.
DRIVER
...JJT 108...
IRENE'S VOICE ON THE PHONE
...JJT 108...
DRIVER
It's the license number for my car. I've
left it in a parking lot on the corner of
Culver and Lincoln. Section M 10...
Irene writes down the details, looking even more confused.
DRIVER'S VOICE ON THE PHONE
There's a bag in the trunk with some money.
Keys are under the left rear wheel...
IRENE
What do you want me to do with it?...
Driver walks with difficulty, finding it hard to breathe.
DRIVER
It's yours. It's safe to keep it...
All around him the Chevys, Dodges, and Fords glitter in the
sunlight.
IRENE
I told you, I don't need your money...
Blood seeps through Driver's shirt, dripping on the tarmac.
Irene hears his labored breathing now, looking concerned.
(CONTINUED)
86
9/24/10
164 CONTINUED: (2) 164
IRENE
Are you okay?...
Driver's skin looks deathly pale, his eyes a haunting shade of
blue. He keeps walking through the maze of cars, casting his
eyes from one vehicle to the next, looking for the perfect ride.
DRIVER
Just out of breath...
Finally he spots a beautiful white Camaro up ahead.
DRIVER
How're you doing?...
For the first time we see the Echo Park fountain sparkling in
the background.
IRENE
Fine. I'm in the park with Benicio...
Irene can no longer hold back her tears, heartbroken.
Driver stops in front of the white Camaro, unsteady on his feet.
DRIVER
I gotta go Irene...
He pauses.
DRIVER
Meeting you was the best thing that ever
happened to me...
Irene smiles sadly.
IRENE
It was nice to meet you too...
From above we see the maze of vehicles stretching out forever --
Chevys, Chryslers, Fords -- the history of America on wheels.
Driver switches off his cell-phone reluctantly then heads
towards the Camaro.
We're gazing down at the white Camaro from above, waiting for it
to move.
