A vast field of stars. The gas giant Neptune slowly spins
into view. Brilliant and blue and cold against the void.
stands out against the planet, tiny against Neptune's scale.
to discern the hard angles of a man-made craft. A ship. No
longer dwarfed by the planet, the scale of the vessel emerges:
a vast labyrinth of steel.
Its shadow swallows all in darkness.
DISSOLVE TO:
Weir's window is just one of many in a space station, a
delicate combination of cylindrical habitats and solar panels.
The structure hangs above the Earth in low orbit.
TITLE CARD: DAYLIGHT SPACE STATION 08.23.2046
The Lewis and Clark pulls away from Daylight station, turns
towards the depths of space. It is a tough-looking spacecraft,
all engine.
Sequence omitted from original script.
THE ION ENGINE at the aft of the ship begins to glow a deep
red.
SILENCE. The engine flares white hot. The Lewis and Clark
lances forward.
CUT TO:
The Lewis and Clark races SILENTLY past. The engine at its
aft holds a sustained fusion reaction like the sun.
GRAPHIC: U.S.S. Lewis and Clark. 56 days out.
SILENCE. The Lewis and Clark drifts towards Neptune.
...from DENNY, her four-year-old son, a paraplegic, grinning
widely in his new wheelchair:
DENNY
(video)
Play horsey, Mommy, play horsey...
IN THE VIDEO, Peters enters shot, scoops her child from the
chair.
PETERS
(video)
Want to play horsey, do you...
(etc.)
The Lewis and Clark flashes silently past, heading deeper
and deeper into space.
The Lewis and Clark closes in on the blue planet.
RCS thrusters pivot and fire as the ship enters Neptune orbit,
dropping lower and lower into the dense blue clouds...
...the clouds break, revealing...
THE EVENT HORIZON, right in front of them. A black
labyrinthine blasphemy against Neptune's arctic blue. Cloud
banks encircle the ship as if it were the eye of a hurricane.
The Event Horizon looms enormous as the Lewis and Clark hangs
off the port stern, dwarfed by the giant ship.
The Lewis and Clark maneuvers in close to the Event Horizon,
dwarfed by the dark ship.
The Lewis and Clark moves even closer. Vanishing into the
shadow of the Event Horizon.
The Lewis and Clark carefully maneuvers in close to the Event
Horizon's airlock.
A mechanical boom-arm extends from the smaller ship to latch
onto the Event Horizon. Its clawed hand grabs the antennae
cluster. The cluster buckles under the stress.
The docking collar umbilicus extends to the Event Horizon's
airlock.
The Lewis and Clark and the Event Horizon, locked together
in Neptune orbit. Lights shine from the Horizon as power is
restored. No longer cloaked in darkness, it is revealed in
all its hideous glory, a nightmare etched in steel.
PULL BACK from the bridge windows TO REVEAL...
...the Event Horizon in all its horrific glory, hanging skew
in the center of the hurricane like a mote in God's eye.
The Lewis and Clark clings to the giant craft, as
insignificant as a tick. An even smaller figure clings to
the hull of the Lewis and Clark...
It's Smith, EVA in full protective gear. His magnetic boots
hold him to the Lewis and Clark's hull. He kneels over a
hole in the hull, where the metal has buckled and torn. Vapor
still leaks from the hole into space.
SMITH
Captain Miller, you copy?
MILLER (O.S.)
(radio)
I'm here, Smith, how's the Clark?
SMITH
I've found a six inch fracture in
the outer hull. We should be able to
repair it and re-pressurize, it's
gonna take some time.
MILLER (O.S.)
(radio)
We don't have time, Smith. In twenty
hours we run out of air.
SMITH
Understood.
Smith uses a foam applicator to fill the hole. The gel freezes
in place. Smith reaches to his belt, pulls out a ZERO-G
NAILGUN. Presses it to the patch and begins to rivet it into
place.
CUT TO:
Establish.
Miller, Smith and Cooper cling to the Lewis and Clark's hull.
They carefully remove an access panel, revealing scorched
wiring.
COOPER
We'll have to re-route through the
port conduit to the APU.
SMITH
What about the accumulator...?
Starck's VOICE breaks in:
STARCK (O.S.)
(radio)
Miller, come in...
MILLER
What's going on in there, Starck?
STARCK (O.S.)
(radio)
Justin's in the airlock.
MILLER
(to Cooper)
Stay here! Don't stop working!
COOPER
But Justin...
MILLER
I'll get him.
Miller swings his body around, heads across the umbilicus to
the Event Horizon. He moves in great leaps, using the magnetic
plates in his gloves and boots to keep from drifting off
into Neptune's thin atmosphere.
CUT TO:
Miller moves like a frantic spider across the surface of the
Event Horizon.
MILLER
I'm on my way, Starck.
STARCK (O.S.)
(radio)
You better hurry. He's engaged the
override, we can't open the inner
door.
Miller curses under his breath, moves even faster...
BACK TO:
Miller races across the surface of the Event Horizon, the
only sounds, his LABOURED BREATHING, and Justin's tortured
VOICE, patched through on his radio:
JUSTIN (O.S.)
(radio)
...It's inside and it eats and eats
until there's nothing left.
PETERS (O.S.)
(radio)
"The dark inside..."? I don't
understand.
JUSTIN (O.S.)
(radio)
From the Other Place...
BACK TO:
Miller moves through the Event Horizon superstructure,
recklessly leaping from one beam to another, trying to build
up speed.
MILLER
Patch me through to him.
Miller moves faster and faster, his BREATH echoing in his
helmet. He can see the exterior airlock just beyond a deep
chasm in the ship's superstructure. If he misses this jump,
Justin will not be the only man to die today.
He doesn't hesitate but leaps, soaring across the chasm
towards the airlock.
JUSTIN
(radio)
...I don't want to die...!
MILLER
You're not going to die! Not today!
I want you to do exactly as I say
and I'm gonna get you out of there,
alright?
Miller lands on the superstructure opposite the exterior
airlock.
MILLER
(radio)
Exhale everything you got, Baby Bear,
we can't have any air in those lungs,
blow it all out...
Miller squats on the girder, ready to push off. He focuses
on the 5 meters of space between him and the airlock...
The outer doors OPEN...
The rush of escaping atmosphere carries Justin's body out...
Miller pushes off... catches Justin's body... sending them
both back towards the open Airlock...
Ice forms on Justin's body. His veins bulge. Blood fountains
from his noise and mouth, forming a red icicle over his face.
Miller pulls him into the Airlock. Five seconds have passed
since the airlock door opened.
The grotesque ship continues it's orbit as the moon Triton
eclipses the sun. Darkness swallows all.
CUT TO:
Cooper looks at Smith.
COOPER
Cross your fingers.
Cooper works on the patch as the ship's running lights come
on in sequence...
Cooper examines the weld on the baffle plate. It's solid.
COOPER
Solid as a rock.
(into his radio)
Hey, Smith...
The SILENT EXPLOSION tears the Lewis and Clark into two
pieces, spiralling away from each other and from the Event
Horizon. Metal shards, like confetti, fill the space between
them.
Cooper clings to the forward section, watching the Event
Horizon recede as he tumbles into space. His FRENZIED
BREATHING is the only sound.
Cooper watches the Event Horizon fall farther and farther
away.
He checks his oxygen gauge. One tank full, one tank at half.
Cooper twists his backpack around, giving him access to the
oxygen tanks. He seals off his primary hose and disconnects
the full tank. His gauge immediately goes to "Yellow -
Reserve."
Cooper points the full tank away from the Event Horizon and
OPENS IT...
The blast of pressurized air pushes him towards the ship,
leaving the wreckage of the Lewis and Clark behind.
CUT TO:
Cooper. Outside, braced in the viewport bracket.
Miller dives for the door. Before Weir can fire,
the window EXPLODES outward.
AN ALIEN SUN, red and bloated and dying.
AN ALIEN TERRAIN; a sluggish, oily, black sea. A hand reaches
from the oil...
A small, silent EXPLOSION blossoms in the aft section of the
ship...
Waves of distortion ripple over the Event Horizon's
containment section...
A dark sphere of energy spreads out from the containment as
the gateway opens... A BLACK HOLE...
The black hole begins to shrink, imploding. As it collapses,
it sucks Neptune's blue clouds with it, creating a TITANIC
WHIRLPOOL with the black hole at its center...
The SHRIEKING winds carry the foredecks back towards the
whirlpool, towards the black hole...
The foredecks teeter on the edge of oblivion...
The black hole collapses utterly, vanishing to a point. An
enormous SHOCKWAVE rips out from the point of implosion.
The foredecks ride the wave away from the implosion and out
of Neptune's atmosphere to safety...
Neptune recedes, the ugly hole of the implosion already being
erased by Neptune's violent winds...
