Sissy very timidly ventures a pass with her gigantic right
thumb in the direction she is walking.
She is passed by...... BUT NO!
BRAKE LIGHTS! A Pontiac skids ever so slightly on the
snowflakes. View of the Pontiac insignia on the hood of the
car.
Sissy runs, actually sweating, to its side. She peers in.
OUTSIDE a palmist's trailer is a sign with a red silhouette
of a hand.
Directly under the wrist where the watch band would be is
written MADAME ZOE.
Madam Zoe in kimono and wig lets Sissy and her mother in the
door.
MADAME ZOE
I am the enlightened Madame Zoe.
Inside. Madame Zoe begins stubbing a cigarette in one of
those enlightened little ceramic ashtrays that are shaped
like bedpans and inscribed BUTTS. The trailer is cluttered,
but not one knick-knack, chintz curtain or chenille-covered
armchair seems to have come from the Beyond.
MADAME ZOE
There is nothing about your past,
present or future that your hands do
not know, and there is nothing about
your hands that Madame Zoe does not
know. There is no hocus-pocus
involved. I am a scientist, not a
magician. I, Madame Zoe, chiromancer,
lifelong student of the moldings and
markings of the human hand. I, Madame
Zoe, to whom no facet of your
character or destiny is not readily
revealed. I am prepared to...
Then she notices the thumbs.
MADAME ZOE
Jesus fucking Christ!
Mrs. Hankshaw and the fortune-teller turn pale and uncertain,
while Sissy recognizes with a faint smile that she is in
command.
Sissy extends the thumbs as an ailing aborigine might extend
his swollen parts to a medical missionary. Sissy's mama draws
a neatly folded five-dollar bill from her change purse and
extends it alongside her smiling daughter's extremities.
Madame Zoe returns to her senses, and takes Sissy by the
elbow to sit at a For mica-topped table of undistinguished
design.
Madam Zoe holds Sissy's hands while she appears to go into a
trance.
She opens her eyes momentarily.
MADAME ZOE
You have a strong will. Will power
and determination are indicated by
the first phalanx. The second phalanx
indicates reason and logic. You
obviously have both in large supply.
What's your name, dearie?
SISSY
Sissy.
MADAME ZOE
Hmmm. I'd say that you have an
intelligent, kindly, somewhat artistic
nature. However, Sissy, however,
there is a heavy quality to the second
phalanx- the phalanx of logic --
that indicates a capacity for foolish
or clownish behavior, a refusal to
accept responsibility or to take
things seriously and bent to be
disrespectful of those who do. Your
mama tells me that you're pretty
well behaved and shy, but I'd watch
out for signs of irrationality. All
right?
She pulls her thumb to her breast.
MADAME ZOE
I guess the most important aspect of
your thumbs is the, ahem, over all
size. Uh, what was it, do you know,
that caused...?
Mom speaks out from the couch she is sitting on
MRS HANKSHAW
Don't know; the doctors don't know...
SISSY
Just lucky I guess.
MADAME ZOE
Do you study history in school?
Galileo, Descartes, Newton? Lebinitz
had very large thumbs; Voltaire's
were enormous, but, heh heh, just
pickles compared with yours.
SISSY
What about Crazy Horse?
MADAME ZOE
Crazy Horse? You mean the Indian?
Nobody that I've ever heard of ever
troubled to study the paws of savages.
Well, I guess that about covers the
three-fifty charge...
Madame Zoe lets go of Sissy's thumbs and wipes her hands on
her kimono.
MRS. HANKSHAW
Husband.
Mrs. Hankshaw withdraws a bill from her rat-skin bag.
MADAME ZOE
Beg your pardon?
MRS. HANKSHAW
Husband. Will she find a husband?
MADAME ZOE
Oh, I see.
Madame Zoe takes Sissy's hand and gives it the old tall-dark-
stranger squint.
MADAME ZOE
I see men in your life, honey. I
also see women, lots of women.
She raises her eyes to meet Sissy's looking for an admission
of the "tendency", but there is no signal.
Mrs. Hankshaw does not approve.
MADAME ZOE
A husband, no doubt about it, though
he is years away. There are children,
too. Five, maybe six, but the husband
is not the father. They will inherit
your characteristics.
Mrs. Hankshaw, aghast, has heard plenty, and she ushers her
daughter out of the trailer as if she were leading her from
a burning cocktail lounge.
TITLE ACROSS THE SCREEN:
COWGIRL INTERLUDE
(Delores del Ruby)
Views of vast vistas of arid grasslands, open and unmodulated,
thirsty and exposed.
At the western edge of the DAKOTAS, the monotony of the
landscape, now gradually tilting toward the Rockies, is
interrupted by the Badlands -- sculptured canyons so deep
and chaotic they can break a devil's heart.
Between the grasslands and the eerie badlands ruins, there
lies a narrow band of humpy hills, green and pastoral. The
hills are carpeted with midlength prairie grass.
The Rubber Rose buildings are clustered at the badlands end
at the base of a butte, higher, broader and longer than any
in its vicinity, known as Siwash Ridge. a sign over the entry
of the ranch reads:
Welcome to the Rubber Rose Ranch
(the largest all-girl ranch in the west)
Delores del Ruby arrives at the Rubber Rose Ranch, carrying
a whip at her side and batting an educated lash at the
surrounding sights.
DELORES
I've traveled through the Yucatan
with a circus, popping false eyelashes
off a trained monkey with a bullwhip.
When I ate peyote one night and had
a vision. Niwetkame, the Mother
Goddess, came to me on the back of a
doe, hummingbirds sipping the tears
she was shedding, crying 'Delores,
you must lead my daughters against
their natural enemy. You must come
to the Rubber Rose Ranch and prepare
for your mission, the details of
which will be revealed to you in a
third vision....' That night I whipped
the shit out of my black lover and
ran away. For a while I drove around,
making a living selling peyote buttons
to hippies, until I made my way
here...
A snake crosses the road in front of her, and she takes her
whip and whirls it around her head. The snake that is crawling
across the dusty road that leads to the ranch is carrying a
card under its forked tongue.
Delores snaps her whip at the snake and picks the card out
of his mouth and lets it fly in the air.
Delores catches it..... The card is the Queen of Spades.
Sissy is thirty years old now wearing a trademark colored
jumpsuit. She is saying these words still: "Greater freedom
of movement."
Sissy sticks out her thumb, even though there is no traffic.
A plane is flying overhead. Sissy hitches it; and the plane's
flight path curves with in response to her gesture. A squirrel
running by stops to look. The bus on the other side of the
road skids to a stop and two cars coming her way stop as
well.
From the look of her Sissy is a very seasoned hitchhiker,
and she turns around relatively unimpressed with the fact
that a car has stopped for her.
SISSY'S VIEW. The man driving is black-skinned, beret-topped
and he has four smiling gold teeth and six shiny brass
saxaphones in the back seat. He wears a gardenia in his lapel
and tokes on a short joint.
SISSY
Going north?
MAN
You bet your raggedy white ass I am.
Sissy gets in.
He turns up the volume of his radio and rockets north.
A view down the road of the Lincoln Continental going swiftly
in its direction.
CREDIT INTERLUDE featuring the song "Even Cowgirls Get the
Blues" as sung by (an undetermined country or pop star like
k.d. lang or Bob Dylan) in an old television Kine-scope piece
of film like you might see on early 1950's television sets.
Between Sissy watching this image on old motel televisions,
there are also IMAGES of roads, cars, trucks, highways,
thumbs, gas stations and deserts gliding by in a flow of
natural hitchhiking beauty.
Sissy gets out of a large eighteen wheel truck and walks
into a United States Post Office.
Sissy gets out of the truck and looks up at a large building.
Rupert is helping Julian to the street. Rupert is a salesman
for a publishing house. His wife Carla, a homemaker, as they
say. The other couple breaks down into Howard and Marie Barth,
both copywriters for an ad agency.
Howard hails a cab and Carla and Marie flutter around Sissy.
MARIE
This is dreadful.
(lowering her voice
confidentially)
You know, asthma attacks are brought
on by emotional stress. Poor Julian
is so high strung. The excitement of
meeting you -- my dear, you look so
stunning! -- must have upset his
chemical balance.
Carla nods. Everyone is piling into the taxi.
RUPERT
Come on, Sissy, don't be afraid of
us.
SISSY
I've never ridden in a cab. The whole
idea of paying for a ride makes my
thumbs hurt.
Sissy is forced to suffer the indignity of riding in a vehicle
she wasn't responsible for flagging with her own thumbs.
CARLA
It'll be all right, dear. It isn't
as serious as it sounds.
THE TAXI stops in front of Julian's building. It discharges
its passengers.
Sissy trembles while she kisses her thumbs.
SISSY
I will hitch with you, out where
tall birds wade in a lake named for
my Siwash kin. Out where Smokey the
Bear lay down his shovel to romp
with more playful beasts. Out where
starlight has no enemies and the
badland wind no friends. Out where
the boogie stops and the woogie
begins.
Sissy makes little puffs of dust as she walks.
From the direction of the ranch a VW Microbus is approaching.
It is painted with mandalas, lamaistic dorjes and symbols
representing "the clear light of the void."
When the Microbus draws alongside Sissy it stops. Inside are
two men and a woman. They are approximately twenty-four years
old.
WOMAN
Are you a pilgrim?
SISSY
No, I'm more of an Indian The trio
doesn't smile.
DRIVER
She means are you going to see the
Chink?
SISSY
Oh, I may and I may not. But seeing
him is not my main objective out
here.
DRIVER
That's good. Because he won't see
you. We came all the way from
Minneapolis to see him and the crazy
bastard tried to stone us to death
OTHER MAN
Yeah, but I no longer believe that
guy's a master. He's just a dirty,
uptight old mountain man. Why, he
pulled out his pecker and shook it
at Barbara. I'd stay away from there
if I were you, lady.
Sissy walks on leaving the people in the bus arguing about
whether the Chink's rock-shower and pecker-wag actually had
been intended as spiritual messages.
WALKING down the long dirt road, Sissy stops to take a
breather and sits down on a log.
Sissy thinking and looking into the clouds.
Waves of grasses whisper her name: Ssssssssss, Sssssssssssss
Sisssy.
Meadowlarks squander their songs on her as she begins to
squirm on the log.
A Lincoln Continental drives up suddenly. Sissy barely has
time to zip up.
The Cadillac stops in front of Sissy. A teenaged girl in a
Stetson is at the wheel. The rear door of the limousine opens
and a refined matronly voice calls from the void.
MISS ADRIAN
By any chance are you Sissy Hankshaw?
SISSY
Yes I am.
A chic middle-aged woman leans out of the car.
MISS ADRIAN
My goodness. Why didn't you telephone?
Someone would have driven into
Mottburg to pick you up. I'm Miss
Adrian. From the ranch. The Countess
wrote that I should expect you. Get
in, won't you? You must be exhausted.
Gloria, assist Miss Hankshaw with
her luggage.
Gloria nods at Sissy amicably but doesn't make a move to
help her.
Sissy swings her sack into the roomy vehicle. Before she
gets in she flashes her thumb to hitch a ride.
The instant that Sissy shuts the door the cowgirl chauffeur
floors the Cadillac and it lurches away in a puff of dust.
The limousine pulls up in the drive.
MISS ADRIAN'S VOICE
Our Ranch has all the latest in modern
facilities...
Miss Adrian and Sissy walk out the back door of the Ranch
and out near a corral, to the sound of gunfire.
MISS ADRIAN
O merciful Jesus! They're murdering
the guests!
One of the FILM CREW MEMBERS is hanging out in the corral
wearing a shiny jacket with DISNEY printed on the back.
Miss Adrian grabs him by the shoulders and shakes him.
MISS ADRIAN
Where are the guests?
MAN
Take it easy, lady. They went on a
short ride with the cowgirls. Rode
over the hill yonder. You're Miss
Adrian, aren't you? We need to talk
to you about the filming.
MISS ADRIAN
Not now, you fool, not now. Those
crazed bitches have led innocent
women out and are slaughtering them
at this moment. We'll all be killed.
Oh! Ohhh!
Another CAMERAMAN spits out a wad of chewing gum.
CAMERAMAN
There's a slaughter going on all
right, but it's not the fat ladies
that are getting it. Your hired hands
are killing the cattle.
MISS ADRIAN
The cattle? They're killing the cows?
All of them?
CAMERAMAN
(interrupted while
putting a zoom lens
on his camera)
That's what they said, Miss Adrian.
A devilish young cowgirl is sitting on a fence nearby. Miss
Adrian addresses her.
MISS ADRIAN
How dare you slaughter the Countess's
cattle! What is a ranch without cows?
COWGIRL
We're going to replace them with
goats. Most of the cattle are diseased
and in pain. We're just putting them
out of their misery. According to
Bon-an-za Jellybean, the Rubber Rose
is in-di-cat-ive of the Countess's
values. He has purchased a cheap
weak strain of cow to begin with and
with improper care....
MISS ADRIAN
Oh heavens! I don't want to hear
what Bonanza Jellybean has been
telling you girls.... Come on Sissy.
I'll show you to your quarters.
AND THE SUN SETS OVER THE CANYON, THE HILLS AND SIWASH RIDGE
NEARBY.
THE CHINK, with his back to us looks down on the ranch from
the ridge and watches Miss Adrian lead Sissy into a small
guest cottage on the ranch.
A DISTANT COYOTE HOWLS, AND A FEW SCATTERED GUNSHOTS ARE
HEARD.
What was in the center of the circle was a goat. Debbie was
scratching the animal's ears. She was hugging it.
KYM
It's cute. Way cuter than a cow.
DEBBIE
Goats are always testing you. They're
like Zen masters. They can tell
instantly if you're faking your
feelings. So they play games with
you to keep you true. People should
go to goats instead of psychiatrists.
GLORIA
It's so loving.
Gloria cuts in on Debbie and gives the beast a hug.
HEATHER
Look at those playfully wise eyes.
GLORIA
Ooo! It licked me!
JELLY
More and more people are discovering
that cow's milk isn't fit for human
consumption. Billy West says if we
can produce enough goat's milk on
the ranch to make it worth his while,
he'll run it into Fargo regularly.
She pauses and looks around the group in the circle.
DELORES
I'm aware that Tad Lucas rode broncs
until her ninth month, but I don't
think pregnant cowgirls are going to
be any asset on this ranch. I hope
you itchy clits who are sneaking
down to the lake every night are
taking precautions. It's bad enough
we've got cranes coming; we don't
need storks. I feel that those film
makers should be removed from the
Rubber Rose as soon as possible. Men
can cause nothing but trouble here.
I also feel that our guest
(she nods at Sissy)
should be excused while we discuss
this matter further.
Hurt, Sissy leaves the group.
Views of Sissy in her Whooping crane outfit dancing to Debussy
in front of the Disney film crew. The documentary being
directed by an effusive Frenchman.
View of the camera crew training their long telephoto lenses
on Siwash Lake. They all seem to be wearing the same trademark
satin baseball jackets with one logo or another on their
backs.
Another view of the lake, from above, from the Chink's point
of view and our first view of THE CHINK. The Chink spies
Sissy and Jelly coming over a ridge.
We cannot hear them at first, but Sissy and Jelly are talking.
JELLY
......Delores zonks out on peyote at
least once a week, but so far her
Third Vision hasn't happened.
Niwetkame, the Mother Goddess has
not gotten back in touch with her.
Meanwhile she and Debbie are rivaling
each other like a couple of crosstown
high schools. Tension. Cowgirl
tension! What a drag.
SISSY
What is Debbie's position?
JELLY
Debbie says that if women are to
take charge again, they must do it
in the feminine way; they mustn't
resort to aggressive and violent
masculine methods. She says it is up
to women to show themselves better
than men, to love men, set good
examples for them and guide them
tenderly toward the New Age. She's a
real dreamer, that Debbie-dear.
SISSY
You don't agree with Debbie, then?
JELLY
I wouldn't say that. I expect she's
right, ultimately. But I'm with
Delores when it comes to fighting
for what's mine. I can't understand
why Delores is so uptight about the
Chink; he could probably teach her a
thing or two. Ee! That grass tickles,
doesn't it? God knows I love women,
but nothing can take the place of a
man that fits. Still this is cowgirl
territory and I'll stand with Delores
and fight any bastards who might
deny it. I guess I've always been a
scrapper. Look. This scar. Only twelve
years old and I was felled by a silver
bullet.
Jelly takes Sissy's hand, carefully avoiding the thumbs and
helps her feel the depression in her belly. The depression
is a dimple, like another navel.
AFTER A HUNGRY STILLNESS, like intermission at a wolf dance,
rhythms are established. Jelly and Sissy are socked into one
another now, and they arch and push and corkscrew and
jackknife softly but with pronounced cadence.
Everything becomes scrambled. They rock each other in cradles
of sweat and saliva, until we can see nothing.
Noisy breaths buck out of Sissy: "Jelly, Jelly" but she can't
hear Sissy because she is screaming. Hysterical from the
scalding hot softness of girl-love.
The Chink looks on from the hilltop above indifferently.
Sissy and Jelly are riding on the back of a horse.
A WHOOPING CRANE is spied by Sissy as she rides on the back
of Jellybean's horse back to the ranch. Delores and Big Red
hurry to meet them.
DELORES
He's here.
Sure enough across the yard, in the midst of the low-cal
barbecue in progress, monocle reflecting sunlight, cigarette
holder stabbing the air, stands the Countess.
DELORES
Look at him. Perverse as a pink
pickle.
BIG RED
Sick as a vice squad.
DELORES
He's in a snit. He wants to see you
right after the barbecue.
Jellybean chuckles sardonically and dismounts.
JELLY
Get the girls. He's gonna see me
right now.
Sissy, confused, and loyalties torn in the face of an
impending revolution, leaves the corral and
SLIPS INSIDE THROUGH THE KITCHEN.
DOWN THE HALL
ENTERING HER ROOM, SHE LOCKS HERSELF IN. As she locks the
latch she hears Jelly's voice.
INT RANCH OFFICE DAY
Jelly has taken over the ranch loudspeaker system and is
giving an ultimatum.
JELLY
Any of you ladies who would like to
join us, you're welcome to stay on
as a full working podner at the Rubber
Rose. Rest of you get packed -- and
I mean now. You've got fifteen minutes
to move your lard asses off this
ranch.
INSIDE THE EXERCISE ROOM
Women are reacting to the demands.
INSIDE THE GREENHOUSE
Some women are taking up trowels and brooms as weapons.
INSIDE THE KITCHEN
The help is joining the revolt.
INSIDE THE HALLWAY
Other women are running for their lives.
INSIDE SISSY'S ROOM
She hears the screen door screech open and a chaos of
footsteps in the hall. She goes to her window. And she can
see, partially cut off by the corner of the building, Miss
Adrian screaming.
MISS ADRIAN
You will all be rounded up and sent
to prison if you take this any
farther! This is not your ranch!!!!
The Countess seems to be taking it slowly, and calmly smoking
a French cigarette. He observes the fighting among them with
amusement.
THE COUNTESS
You pathetic little cutesy-poos. Do
you actually suppose this exhibition
of childlike melodrama is advancing
the cause of freedom?
JELLY
You owe us this here ranch, as a
token payment for your disgusting
exploitations
THE COUNTESS
(tranquilly)
Then take it.
JELLY
Go for it, girls!
The hands, who carry axes, picks, pitchforks and shovels,
retreat. The Countess, still grinning, reaches for an hors
d'oeuvre and subjects his cigarette to a measured, self-
assured puff.
MISS ADRIAN
(shaking her fist)
Go to your bunkhouse and remain there!
When the revolutionaries have retreated about thirty yards,
they stop. With astonishing rapidity, they unbuckle unbutton
and unzip and step out of their jeans and underpants. Then,
nude from the waist down, thatched pubises thrust forward,
up front and leading the way, they begin to advance.
The Countess's grin goes down his throat like bathwater down
a drain.
GLORIA
Better reach for your spray cans!
JELLY
Not one of these pussies has been
washed in a week!
Rather pale, his nose twitching, the Countess drops the caviar
canap he has been holding.
ON COME THE COWGIRLS, pelvises pumping, laying down what the
trembling Countess believes to be a devastating barrage of
musk.
Miss Adrian, lost in her own hysteria, charges. A barbeque
fork she hurls draws blood from Heather's eyebrow.
Quick as a frog's tongue, Delores's whip cracks. It's lash
curls around the ranch manager's ankles, pulling her feet
from under her. She hits the sod in a jangle of jewelry and
expulsion of breath.
A Molotov cocktail thrown by Big Red says hello to the sexual
reconditioning building. Within seconds, the structure is
blazing.
Sissy running across it. She passes the pool, and falls in.
Climbing out, wet, scared, she runs to the base of Siwash
Ridge and southward along the mountain's foot.
EVENTUALLY Sissy comes to a place where the juniper bushes
are broken to reveal a crude path beginning a steep ascent.
Sissy decides to climb up it.
She shoulders her way through low, slivery boughs.
Approximately halfway up the ridge she rests on a flat rock
from which she can look down on the...
BURNING RUBBER ROSE smoking away, distant yahoos and carryings
on can be heard. Horses whinney in the corral. A few gunshots
are thrown into the soundtrack if things aren't lively enough.
MISS ADRIAN'S CADILLAC, ON FIRE, roars out of the drive.
Sissy looks up to the quiet mountain. Pauses. Then she looks
back to the chaos below.
THE CINEMATOGRAPHERS' RENTED CONVERTIBLE AND THEIR EQUIPMENT
VAN drive away.
Sissy sits and wonders. The sun is setting on the horizon,
mixing well with the firelight that the Rubber Rose is giving
off.
BUT SHE is aware of something watching her. Looking about
she sees nothing.
VIEW of an empty trail.
VIEW OF a quivering bush.
Sissy turns to the sound of the CHINK.
CHINK
Ha ha ho ho hee hee.
AND THERE HE IS. Standing only ten yards away.
The Chink's problem is that he looks like he rolled out of a
Zen scroll, as if he says "presto" a lot, knows the meaning
of lightning and the origin of dreams. He LOOKS as if he
drinks dew and fucks snakes.
Sissy and the Chink scrutinize one another with mutual
fascination.
CHINK
Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
Sissy is just about to speak, but before she does THE CHINK
whirls, and scampers up the mountainside.
SISSY
Wait!
Warily he stops and turns, poised to flee again.
Sissy smiles.
SHE RAISES her ripe right thumb. And jerking it and swooshing
it, she hitchhikes the Chink and his mountain.
THERE HE STANDS where Sissy's thumbs have stopped him. The
Chink wears the wary look of a wild animal. He's not going
to stay stopped long. It is Sissy's move.
SISSY
Well, aren't you going to shake your
whanger at me?
The Chink pauses for a moment, then he slaps his thighs and
giggles hysterically. Ha has, ho hos and hee hees squirt out
of his nose and through the gaps in his teeth.
CHINK
(laughter dies a
nervous chipmunk
death)
Follow me. I'll fix you supper.
THE TWO doggedly walk up the steep trail.
SISSY
I'm a friend of Bonanza Jellybean's.
CHINK
I know who you are.
SISSY
Oh? Well, there's been some trouble
on the ranch. I came up here to get
out of the way. It's so dark now I
doubt if I could find my way back
down. If you could help...
CHINK
(voice that wears no
pants)
Save your breath for the climb.
SISSY takes another look at the Rubber Rose, which is now
quiet. We can hear faintly a distant popping of washcloths
and girlish laughter.
THEY make their way into a depression at the top of the
mountain down a ladder of sticks.
THE CHINK lights a large fire in the middle of the depression.
HE puts a kettle of stew over the fire, and begins to roast
yams.
THE CHINK'S FACE as the fire dances off it.
A CAN OF CHUNG KING water chestnuts is opened.
CUT TO: Sissy and the Chink eating supper on a rough wooden
bench.
AND AS THEY FINISH, the Chink goes into a cave and returns
with a tiny peppermint-stripped plastic transistor radio. He
switches it on and the silence is broken by "The Happy Hour
Polka."
Still clutching the radio in one hand, the Chink hops into
the wheel of firelight and begins to dance.
Sissy walks around the fire watching the old geezer heel and
toe, skip and hop. He flings his bones; he flings his beard.
CHINK
Yip! Yip! Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
Arms swimming, feet firecrackering, he dances and dances.
When the song ends, the Chink puts the radio down as the
news comes on.
CHINK
Personally, I prefer Stevie Wonder,
but what the hell. Those cowgirls
are always bitching because the only
radio station in the area plays
nothing but polkas, but I say you
can dance to anything if you really
feel like dancing.
The Chink dances a little to the news, and then lifts Sissy
by her shoulders and guides her onto his pock-marked dance
floor.
SISSY
But I don't know how to polka.
CHINK
Neither do I... ha ha ho ho hee hee.
The radio strikes up the "Lawrence Welk is a Hero of the
Republic Polka," and the Chink and Sissy dance arm in arm,
their shadows reel against the curves of the depression in
the mountain.
Night birds fly past with fluttering feathers. A bat flies
out of the cave.
The Chink escorts Sissy to a dark side of the depression and
sits her down upon a pile of soft stuff: dried wheatgrass,
faded Indian blankets and old down pillows without cases.
SISSY
(thinking)
So this is how Jelly spends her visits
to the Chink.
A twanging noise sounds from the bowels of the nearby cave.
SISSY
What was that?
CHINK
Clockworks.
SISSY
Clockworks?
The Chink pauses to decide whether he should talk any further,
then proceeds.
CHINK
The Clockworks is one reason that I
am here on Siwash Ridge. I accepted
the invitation to be initiated as a
shaman by an aged Siwash chief who
was the principle outside confederate
of the Clock People.
SISSY
Siwash, huh?
CHINK
He was a degenerated warlock who
could turn urine into beer, and the
honor that he extended me gave me
rights of occupancy in this sacred
cave on this far-away Siwash Ridge.
I came to the Dakota hills to
construct a clockworks of my own.
Sissy cradles her head in her arms, but is startled by a
louder noise from the clockworks. The Chink is startled too.
Bonk! sounds the cave, and then it chimes poing!
The Chink smiles at the noise coming from his clockworks.
CHINK
But unlike the clockworks of the
Clock People, my ticks more accurately
echo the ticks of the universe....
(he listens)
......ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
SISSY
The Clock People?
Sissy walks.
Sissy hitches a ride out of town.
Countless NEWSPAPERS on countless porches, and the headline
of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reads:
OUR WHOOPING CRANES ARE MISSING.
SISSY IS HITCHING OUT OF TOWN.
A conservative blue Econoline van out of the throngs of
traffic draws itself to Sissy as if on a string.
SISSY HOPS IN.
The van pulls over down a dead end alley between warehouses.
It lumbers into a street lamp. Sissy leaps from the vehicle
and runs.
Into a sunset hitches Sissy.
SISSY hops into a semi.
AND ROAD SIGNS:
TRENTON N.J.
BALTIMORE MD
WASHINGTON D.C.
Then
RICHMOND, VA
An older Dr. Dreyfus answers the door. Without Sissy's asking
he speaks.
DR. DREYFUS
I'm afraid I can't help you.
SISSY
But Doctor.
DREYFUS
Please, child, don't be dismayed. We
all have problems these days. But as
the painter Van Gogh said, 'Mysteries
remain, sorrow or melancholy remains,
but the everlasting negative is
balanced by the positive work which
thus is achieved, after all.' I don't
suppose that means very much to you.
I have retired. A victim of a
malpractice suit.
SISSY
(embracing him)
Oh, Doctor! You've got to do it. You
and nobody else should be allowed to
take away my gift.
In her embrace, the Doctor is presented with her thumbs.
DR. DREYFUS
Ah, the thumb.
LATER sitting inside his study, Dreyfus muses.
DR. DREYFUS
The thumb the thumb the thumb the
thumb the thumb the thumb. One of
evolution's most ingenious inventions;
a built-in tool sensitive to texture,
contour and temperature: an alchemical
lever; the secret key to technology;
the link between the mind and art; a
humanizing device. The marmoset and
the lemur are thumbless; none of the
New World monkeys has opposable
thumbs; the spider monkey's thumbs
are absent or reduced to a tiny
tubercle; the thumbs of the potto
are set at an angle of one hundred
eighty degrees to the other digits.
Pause.
DR. DREYFUS
And so you are demanding at last the
privileges of thumb that nature has
perversely denied you?
SISSY
I just want to be normal, give me
that old-fashioned normality. It was
good enough for Crazy Horse and it's
good enough for me.
DR. DREYFUS
Ah, yes. Very well, my dear. Here is
what we can do.
VIEWS OF Sissy admitted to a hospital Blood analyzed in a
laboratory.
Powerful lamps turn on in an operating room.
IV tubes are inserted in veins.
Sissy is wheeled into surgery.
An anesthesiologist sticks a needle into a curved and creamy
ass.
An anesthesiologist sticks needles into a long, graceful
neck.
A nurse scrubs an arm.
A body and table are draped with sheets to create a sterile
field.
A tourniquet is placed on a slender right arm.
An elastic rubber bandage is applied so tightly it squeezes
most of the blood out of an arm.
A tourniquet is inflated.
A surgeon outlines in iodine an incision around the base of
a thumb.
Pale smooth skin is incised along a premarked line and
dissected down to the bone.
Woman flesh is sewn shut with four-ought nylon suture.
A tourniquet is deflated, a bloody arm bathed.
A young woman is rolled into a recovery room.
A nurse and two surgeons, their attention directed by an
intensifying pinkish glow, turn to stare into a metal pan,
where a huge human thumb, disarticulated from the hand it
has been severed from, is now flopping about like a trout,
or rather, arching and thrusting itself in a calculated and
endlessly repeated gesture, the gesture of the hitchhike.
Two representatives of the Fish and Wildlife Service are
flying over Siwash Lake in a U.S. Forestry Service Helicopter.
THEY CAN SEE the whooping cranes by the side of the lake.
And as they are recording this, shots from a band of young
women on horseback drive them away.
the same two agents are driving in a truck approaching the
Rubber Rose Ranch. Two bullet ricochets spin off the hood
and roof of their truck and they stop to see a lone teenaged
cowgirl with a rifle.
An entourage of Forest Service Rangers, a county sheriff,
four deputy shriffs, a state game warden and Mottburg's town
marshall and several of his deputies, the editor of the
Mottburg Gazette and a couple of bird watchers or two are
met by...
AT LEAST FIFTEEN ARMED FEMALES at the gate of the Ranch.
Through a bullhorn, Jelly speaks out at the entourage of law
enforcement officers.
JELLY
Yep, the whooping cranes are here
all right. They're in fine shape,
and as you musta saw from your fucking
whirly machine, unrestrained, free
to go as they please. But this is
private property and you aren't laying
a foot on it. None of you.
SHERIFF
We'll be back with a court order and
a fistful of search warrants.
JELLY
Just come back with a couple of people
who know what they're doing and we'll
let'em in for a nice close look at
the birds.
DELORES
And make sure at least one of them
is female, and you better do as we
say or there may be trouble.
AND OVER THE AIRWAVES an announcement is broadcast.
Two construction workers high atop the city listening to a
small transistor radio and eating lunch.
UNDERSECRETARY
...and to the Interior Secretary and
to the American people that the entire
flock of cranes is, indeed, at...
A crowd of people listening to a broadcast in front of a
bandstand set up in front of the mall.
UNDERSECRETARY VOICE
...Siwash Lake and in apparently
healthy condition.
The crowd cheers.
UNDERSECRETARY VOICE
....The cranes have built brooding
nests around the whole circumference
of the small lake, and have...
Cowgirls are watching a small television.
UNDERSECRETARY
....hatched chicks there. Counting
the young birds, there are now
approximately sixty cranes in the
flock. While this is good news, it
is also quite bewildering...
A vehicle know as "the peyote wagon" pulls out of the Rubber
Rose. Delores del Ruby is at the wheel. And over her truck
radio we hear:
UNDERSECRETARY (V.O.)
...Whooping cranes are territorially
minded and have never been known to
nest as close as a mile to one
another, yet here they are virtually
side by side.
A lone FBI man sees the peyote wagon leaving the ranch through
his binoculars.
Sissy is hitchhiking with her new thumb. But cars pass one
after another without stopping. Until Sissy finally tries
her left thumb, which has been spared the knife.
With this thumb there are new maneuvers to try out. And as
soon as the does, a car stops.
MOSAIC of hitchhiking brilliance with Sissy's use of her
left thumb. A CLOCK IS TICKING past twelve then on to six
and past eight.... she dances wildly around traffic, stopping
the hardest of drivers, THE CLOCK TICKS AWAY and within thirty
hours she is approaching Mottburg again.
The Ranch is now surrounded by two hundred federal marshalls
reinforced by a dozen FBI agents with loaded guns taking
position outside the ranch.
Sissy gets out of her car and walks past the posse and through
the gates.
Kym carries a radio which is playing "The Day-Old Apple
Strudel Polka" across the corral. She carries the radio as
if it is a suitcase full of skunk lice.
KYM
Man, this is the stupidest music
I've ever heard. This radio should
have stayed in the privy where it
belongs.
Kym ropes the radio to her saddle horn and prepares to give
it a ride across the Dakota hills. She gets on her horse and
rides by the Ranch bungalows and spies Sissy sitting in the
outhouse.
SISSY
Howdy.
Kym gets off her horse and hugs Sissy.
KYM
You know what you're getting into if
you come over to the lake...
SISSY
Yes, but I want to be there. I want
to see Jellybean. I want to see the
cranes.
THEY RIDE ACROSS THE HILLS. Then they stop at an outlook and
Sissy sees the circular barricade in the field below.
KYM
We heard on the radio that the judge
has set Delores's bail at fifty
thousand dollars. Now she won't be
here when we really need her.
A few cowgirls in the camp huddle around a radio:
RADIO NEWS REPORT
The American Civil Liberties Union
has requested an extension for the
Rubber Rose Ranch. The government is
aware of the inflamed situation and
are afraid that all the marshals and
agents might be too willing to uncork
the bottle of blood...
SISSY RIDES INTO CAMP on the back of Kym's horse the way
that John Wayne would have ridden into the Alamo; Heather,
Bonanza Jellybean, Debbie, Elaine and Linda dance up to meet
her.
Before Sissy is completely on the ground, Jelly's tongue is
in her mouth. She stumbles out of a stirrup into a wiggly
embrace.
JELLY
Let's celebrate!
Debbie stokes up a big joint right now, as Jelly gets out
her six guns and fires them in the air. Heather twirls and
jumps through her rope.
The "Unsung Hero Returns Polka" strikes up on the radio.
Elaine rears up on her horse.
FROM AFAR, AN FBI AGENT views the little going on.
AGENT
Ain't that just like women.
But as the Agent is saying this, viewing them from the ridge,
a large rock tumbles down the hill and grazes his head,
knocking him out.
VIEW of the side of the ridge from where the rock came, but
there is strangely nothing where we expect to see the Chink.
BELOW: The cowgirls.
JELLY
Looks like every time we get together
things are in a mess.
SISSY
So be it. It looks serious this time,
though. All these guns... are you
actually prepared to kill and die
for whooping cranes?
JELLY
Hell no, the cranes are wonderful,
okay, but I'm not in this for whooping
cranes. I'm in it for cowgirls. If
we cowgirls give in to authority on
this crane issue, then cowgirls become
just another compromise. I want a
finer fate than that -- for me and
for every other cowgirl. Better no
cowgirls at all than cowgirls
compromised.
SISSY
How did this business get started,
anyhow? Why are the birds nesting
here?
DEBBIE
You were aware that we were feeding
them, weren't you? We fed them brown
rice and they stayed over a couple
of extra days. Then we decided to
try something different. We mixed
our brown rice with fishmeal --
whoopers love seafood, and fishmeal
is cheap. Then Delores suggested
another ingredient, and we think
that's what did the trick.
SISSY
You mean...
DEBBIE AND JELLY TOGETHER
PEYOTE!
SISSY
They're drugged.
JELLY
Aw, come off it, Sissy. What do you
mean, 'drugged'? Every living thing
is a chemical composition and anything
that is added to it changes that
composition. When you eat a
cheeseburger or a Three Musketeers
bar, it changes your body chemistry.
The kind of food you eat, the kind
of air you breathe, can change your
mental state. Does that mean you're
'drugged'?
Sissy frames the flock with the hole in the center of her
cheese sandwich.
SISSY
No, I guess not.
JELLY
'Drugged' is a stupid word.
SISSY
But the peyote is obviously affecting
their brains. It's made them break a
migratory pattern that goes back
thousands of years.
DEBBIE
The way I see it, is that the peyote
mellowed them out. Made them less
uptight. They were afraid of bad
weather and humans. That's why they
migrated and kept to themselves. But
the peyote has enlightened them.
It's taught them there is nothing to
fear but fear itself. Now they're
digging life and letting the bad
vibes slide on. Don't worry, be happy.
Be here now.
SISSY
Fear in wild animals is completely
different from paranoia in people.
In the wilderness ecosystem, fear is
natural and necessary. It's merely a
mechanism for maintaining life. If
the cranes hadn't had a capacity for
fear, they would have disappeared
long ago and you'd be having to get
loaded with common old everyday
meadowlarks and mallards.
JELLY
This here discussion is destined to
become academic. Because we've got
less than half a bag of peyote buttons
left and Delores's run ended up in
the Mottburg jail. So any day now
we'll get a chance to see how the
whoopers behave when they come down,
to see if the peyote experience really
changed them or not. But in the
meantime, I want to say this about
fear.....
Then Sissy and Jelly hear a news broadcast on the radio.
ANNOUNCER
Judge Greenfield, at the request of
the ACLU, has granted a forty-eight-
hour extension of the deadline by
which the Rubber Rose cowgirls must
comply with his order. Negotiations
between the cowgirls and the
government are expected to follow.
Another item in, the forewoman of
the Rubber Rose Ranch, a Delores del
Ruby is now free on bond after having
been arrested in Mottburg with more
than fifty pounds of peyote buttons.
Her bail has been paid by the owner
of the besieged ranch, Countess
Products, Inc. Miss del Ruby's bail
having come from the tycoon's personal
advisor, a certain Dr. Robbins of
New York City.
SISSY
Dr. Robbins?
Sissy and Jelly lie under the same stars, under the same
blankets. Under the same spell.
JELLY
Every time I tell you that I love
you, you flinch. But that's your
problem.
SISSY
If I flinch when you say you love
me, it's both our problems. My
confusion becomes your confusion.
Students confuse teachers, patients
confuse psychiatrists, lovers with
confused hearts confuse lovers with
clear hearts....
Delores and some of the other cowgirls are talking. A sharp
wind is beginning to gust.
DELORES
It isn't for ourselves that we take
this stand. It isn't for cowgirls.
It's for all the daughters everywhere.
This is an extremely important
confrontation. This is womankind's
chance to prove to her enemy that
she's willing to fight and die. If
we women don't show here and now
that we aren't afraid to fight and
die, then our enemy will never take
us seriously. Men will always know
that, no matter how strong our words
and determined our deeds, there's a
point where we'll back down and give
them their way.
Delores cracks her whip then parades around the campfire.
DELORES
I'm prepared to win! Victory for
every female, living or dead, who's
suffered the temporary defeats of
masculine insensitivity to their
inner lives!
A few of the cowgirls cheer.
DONNA
I'll fight the bastards.
Big Red opens a can of beans with a Bowie knife.
BIG RED
I'll fight 'em with bean gas, if
necessary.
Delores snaps her whip again.
DELORES
The sun's going down. Let's those of
us not standing watch get some sleep.
In the morning we'll plan our fight.
Tomorrow afternoon those of you who'd
like can join me in the reeds, where
the cranes and I will be sharing the
last crumbs left in the peyote sack.
Delores del Ruby appears from the reeds at Siwash Lake's
edge, asleep yet awake. She has sunk so deep into the hole
in her mind that gale and dust could not follow her.
AS SHE APPROACHES THE COWGIRL CAMP, THEY GATHER AROUND HER
IN A TIGHT CIRCLE.
MANY ARE TRANSFIXED as they listen.
DELORES
It is woman's mission to destroy as
well as to give birth. We will destroy
the tyranny of the dull. But we can't
destroy it with guns. Or whips.
Violence is the dullard's Breakfast
of Champions and the logical end
product of his or her misplaced pride.
Violence fertilizes that which we
would starve. No, we will destroy
the enemy in other ways. The Peyote
Mother has promised a Fourth Vision.
But it won't come to me alone. It
will come to each of you, to every
cowgirl in the land, when you have
overcome that in your own self which
is dull. The Fourth Vision will come
to some men too. You will recognize
them when you meet them, and be their
steady sidekicks in equal and ecstatic
escapades of poetic behavior and
romance.
Delores holds up a card. The prairie moon illuminates its
tattered edges. It is the jack of hearts.
The forewoman seems to be tiring. Fumes of weariness stream
from her black hair. Her voice is leaning against the wall
of her larynx when she says:
DELORES
First thing, you must end this
business with the government and the
cranes. It's been positive and
fruitful, but it's gone far enough.
Playfulness ceases to serve a serious
purpose when it takes itself too
seriously. Sorry I won't be with you
at the conclusion. As you know, I've
been sick and stupid for a long time.
I have a lot to make up for, a lot
to accomplish, and there's someone
important that I've got to see. Now.
As graceful as a ballet for cobras, Delores turns and walks
away into the night.
THE FBI, other VIGILANTES and POLICEMEN wait in anticipation
of an attack outside of the boundaries of the ranch.
Jelly is addressing the group of cowgirls.
JELLY
Well, what we got to do is one of us
has got to go up that hill and tell
them boys that America can have its
whooping cranes back. Since I'm the
boss here, and since I'm responsible
for a lot of you choosing to be
cowgirls in the first place, it's
gonna be me that goes...
Small protests from the circle of cowgirls.
JELLY
No buts about it. It's getting lighter
by the second. You podners keep your
heads down. Ta ta.
The cutest cowgirl in the world stood up and stretched out.
COWGIRL
Jelly! Please!
But Jelly is already on her way.
BONANZA JELLYBEAN VAULTS over the carcass of a reducing
machine and plants her Tony Lama boots in the stirrup of her
saddle and straddles her horse and takes off.
The posse surrounding the ranch, can see Jelly coming over
the hill on her horse at a full gallop.
Jelly stops her horse, looks down at her waist, and sees her
sixguns.
JELLY
Better get rid of these. Might give
those greenhorn dudes a fright.
THROUGH the scope of an FBI rifle, Jelly is drawing her gun
out of her holster.
AGENT
She's going to fire....
He squeezes the trigger, and Jelly is caught in the stomach
with a bullet. She falls off her horse to the ground.
THE CHINK sees Bonanza Jellybean cut down from a vantage
point on the hill, and makes a beeline for the government
barricades, SHOUTING.
THE COWGIRLS scream and cry, and grab their weapons. A couple
of them leap from the barricade and are immediately riddled.
The six-gun slips from her fingers.
Twenty or thirty more sweaty triggers are squeezed on the
hilltop firing at Bonanza Jellybean.
THE CHINK RUNNING AND SHOUTING.
A VOICE OVER THE BULLHORN directed at the cowgirls echoes:
VOICE
You've got two minutes to come out
with you hands over your heads!
RANDOM G-MEN are sniping at the cowgirls, making it impossible
to surrender.
A stray bullet SENDS THE CHINK back down the hillside, beard,
robe and sandals flying.
IN THE HUSH that follows, in the echoes of the explosive
fire, the whooping crane flock rises in one grand assault of
beating feathers - a lily white storm of life, a gush of
albino Gabriels -- swarm into the waiting sky, and circle
the pond one time before flapping south toward Texas...
...they cast shadows over a dead Jellybean who is literally
biting the dust.
Sissy lifts Jelly out of the dust and holds her. Sissy lifts
Jelly's satin shirt tail and pulls down the waistband of her
skirt. Bright red blood is running out of her scar.
JELLY
Right in the scar where I fell on a
wooden horse when I was twelve. Haw,
I wasn't really shot with a silver
bullet.
Confessing to Sissy.
JELLY
Or was I?
The cranes fly over the Statue of Liberty.
The Cranes fly over the Eiffel tower.
The Cranes fly over Red Square.
We hear the Chink yelling, and the Rubber Rose sign is being
changed to one that reads El Rancho Jellybean.
CHINK
....if complexity doesn't beat you,
then paradox will. Ha ha ho ho and
hee hee.....
And the truck disappears into the prairie land.
A LONG DARK PAUSE, UNTIL finally we are inside the cave where
the Chink's Clockworks are at work..... poing!
It is revealed that Sissy is with Delores snug in the old
hermit's living quarters. She listens to the clinking of the
Chink's Clockworks.
And feels her belly.
The swell of her belly has forced her to sleep on her back.
CLOSE VIEW of Sissy's belly, and a little foot kicks from
inside. Or is it a foot?
VIEW INSIDE THE BELLY of Sissy's unborn baby. It is half-
Japanese, one thirty-second Siwash and all thumbs.
The moving thumbs are hitchhiking you.....
THE END
Even Cowgirls Get the Blues
Writers : Tom RobbinsGus Van Sant
Genres : ComedyRomanceDrama
User Comments
Back to IMSDb