Ted, the bellboy, meets his first guest of the evening, as a
taxi unloads her luggage. To his warm surprise, the guest is
a Beautiful Mediterranean Goddess (actually, we will come to
see she is not technically a goddess, but a High Priestess).
She is about 25 years old, speaks with an Italian accent and
is dressed in Gypsy garb. She is Athena.
Ted takes Athena's luggage onto his cart. But one item in a
woven Moroccan bag proves to be unbearably heavy. Athena is
concerned as he attempts to lift it.
ATHENA
Pleeze be careful -- my God. You
have no idea...
Ted strains as he uses all his cojones to lift the insanely
heavy bag onto the cart. Athena tips the cab driver, stingily.
The driver winces and gets in the cab. Ted has now managed
with grunts and groans and strained blood vessels to put
this thing on the cart. The cab skids away. Athena looks at
Ted, who is out of breath.
ATHENA
I'm usually a good tipper, but this
one -- this cab driver -- he had
green all around him. I don't like
that in a man.
Ted wheezes and pounds on his chest.
TED
Green? Is that bad? Like you read
auras or something like that?
ATHENA
Something like that.
TED
Yeah, well what color are you seein'
around me... how's the tip lookin?
ATHENA
I see purple... in your face, and...
As if she can't help herself, Athena's eyes are strangely
drawn to his crotch.
She frowns, confused by this impulse. Ted appears to be
charmingly oblivious.
Athena looks back into his face.
ATHENA
...you're okay.
Ted touches his face -- as if searching for the "purple" in
it -- and moves the cart inside, discreetly checking out his
crotch and giving her a confused side glance.
The doors open and Ted and Athena emerge upon the third floor.
Ted follows Athena with the cart down the hallway to her
room.
AT THE HONEYMOON SUITE DOOR
Ted opens the door, then lifts the easiest bags first. In
the center of the room is a Jacuzzi with hokey plastic cupids
poised with urns on each side. A dormant fireplace looms
beyond the still hot tub.
Ted stares at the heavy bag with anxiety -- then looks in
front of him to Athena as she rubs the round plastic head of
a little Cupid and mumbles, "Perfect."
Then, arms open wide, chin lifted to heaven, eyes closed,
she mumbles a faint incantation. Then she does a belly-dance
wiggle and turns to Ted, who is truly perplexed.
ATHENA
Well -- the other bag -- I need it.
TED
Right.
He starts to lift it, again straining and turning purple. He
laughs sickly.
TED
What the hell you got in here, lady?
Nuclear weapons?
She relieves him of the task and effortlessly picks up the
bag.
ATHENA
(dryly)
The White Cliffs of Dover.
Ted is stunned as she slings the bag over her shoulder and
pauses to pull a 10 spot out of her cleavage. She hands it
to him. Ted is grateful and disoriented.
ATHENA
The others will be coming soon. Send
them, pleeze.
Ted nods, confused by "the others," and walks off with the
cart. Then he turns from outside the doorway.
TED
Oh -- I forgot to show you how to
turn on the Jacuzzi.
But Athena is ahead of him -- she flips a switch and water
begins to flow from the baby cupids' urns into the hot tub.
ATHENA
I been in dis' place many New Year's.
So... you send the others to me,
huh. Go now.
As she says this, the door closes with a strange force,
shutting Ted out. Athena takes the bag to the bedroom of the
suite.
IN THE SUITE BEDROOM
A round bed with pink tuck'n'roll headboard. It's impossible
to imagine having an orgasm in this room -- unless it were
achieved by laughing.
Athena carefully removes a large, beautiful white slab of
stone from her tapestry bag. She caresses it and carries it
like a baby to the bed and places it in the very center, the
head of the rock resting on dusty heart-shaped pillows.
Then she removes from her bag a pink negligee and matching
high-heeled slippers.
And these she places with reverence on the bed.
ATHENA
On this night, oh great goddess Diana,
we restore your virgin flesh and
bring you back to real life.
CLOSE ON the rock slab. We hold the artifact.
ATHENA
Soon -- I take you to the pond for a
cleansing. Well, it's a swimming
pool, but it will be under the setting
sun, okay?
The doors open and Ted pushes a cart of expensive designer
luggage -- and lots of it -- behind yet another Gorgeous
Gal. This one is Jezebel, a Southern beauty, fawning over
her cat, as she carries nothing else, and proceeds down the
hall like a Southern princess.
JEZEBEL
(talking to her cat
in baby talk)
Oh you little stinker... oh you sweet
little muffin. Yes... Mama loves the
baby.
AT THE DOOR
Jezebel bursts in, chattering.
JEZEBEL
Well, this is just darlin'! Just
darlin' Hi-dee, girls...
Ted carries all her bags inside awkwardly. Again, the place
has become all the more transformed with wild canopies of
exotic cloths and fixings. Elspeth and Athena are hard at
work on a strange nature sculpture as Jezebel enters. She
stands inside the powdered circle and before the hot tub,
which now has dark blue water swirling inside. She presents
her cat -- upward toward heaven -- frees the cat, bares her
breasts and sucks in the vibes: "Ahhhh."
Ted settles the bags down, hoping for a peek at her charms,
but her back is to him. The kitty rubs on her leg. She picks
it up and presses it against her bare breasts, petting it
sweetly. She winks and hands him a tip.
JEZEBEL
Toodle-loo.
And saying this, she shoos him away. Through the glass doors
to the bedroom, she sees Kiva sprawled on the bed, writing
on herself.
JEZEBEL
Well -- I see Elspeth has herself a
new lil' fool -- what the hell is
she doin' here on our night of annual
ritual?
ATHENA
(wearily)
I have sanctioned her presence, as
long as she behaves. Come on -- there
is more work to be done to welcome
our great Diana.
KIVA
I WANT ROOM SERVICE!!
ELSPETH
Why do I always attract girls who
are looking for a babysitter?
JEZEBEL
Well now, honey, maybe Juvenile Hall
ain't the best place to find serious
relationship material.
Elspeth seethes at her. Jezebel acts blithely innocent.
IN THE HALLWAY
Ted is walking from the room with the cart. His face is etched
in a mask of perpetual frown as he looks at the tip in his
hand -- at least these lunachicks tip well.
Waking him out of his deep mood is Raven. Another female
intoxication, she wears a short skirt, all done up in Native
American, Southwestern themes. No shoes.
But she carries a small, old handmade broom. She moves down
the hall, blissed-out. Ted makes eye contact, despite himself.
RAVEN
I'm looking for the room for making
love.
TED
You might be referring to the
Honeymoon Suite. Straight thata way...
you can't miss it -- see all that
furniture in the hallway --
RAVEN
Oh I know the way. I just wanted you
to know that I knew where I was going
and that you needn't bother yourself
with me. The others are here -- great!
TED
(wearily)
Oh yeah -- it's so great -- it's
fantastic.
RAVEN
(in deep empathy)
Ohhh... I know it all seems very
strange but you're coping with us
much better than the bellboys of
past New Year's.
TED
Past New Year's?
RAVEN
Oh yes -- we've been coming here
every New Year... for a long time.
Thanks for your patience.
TED
Oh hey -- no problem -- wreck the
place. Bring in cats. Ruin the carpet
with flea powder, pour paint in the
Jacuzzi. Throw the furniture out
the... where're your bags?
RAVEN
I travel very light.
Ted looks down at the broom at her side, her bare feets, her
thick dark hair. It keeps getting weirder. She wanders off.
Outside the window, Ted's in another world. He's almost safe.
It's a strange feeling, kind of like bathing in warm water
in paradise, knowing a huge shark is ready to rip his ass
off. He can see the flickering red glowing light from the
witches' room from the floor below.
Ted sees Eva bopping naked past the window. He shouts her
name out, to no avail.
The MUSIC drowns out his voice and they ignore his calls for
help. The blood rushes to his head. He lets himself hang
there for a moment. He wonders how many other people have
found themselves in situations like this before him. Probably
everyone. Right next to his face, Ted recognizes a bloody
hand print. It's not his blood.
Ted hears a sound from above and twists himself around,
spotting a young man (previously seen as the Yuppie Scumbag
on the phone) leaning out of the window directly above him.
After a quick moment of sizing him up, Ted gathers himself.
TED
Hi...
No answer. Something's wrong with the guy, all the blood is
drained from his face and he is mumbling something.
TED
Listen, I'm stuck here in a situation
that I can't even begin to explain,
but would you be so kind as to get
help? Could you call the police,
please?
Silence.
TED
(continuing)
You okay?
The young man manages to belt out the word "ice" just before
hurling a mouthful of vomit toward Ted. It takes all Ted's
strength to dodge the puke and pull himself back into the
bathroom. He falls back on the floor.
He props himself up and checks for damage. He notices
something odd... the room is silent. No Sigfried. He walks
into the bedroom.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON a key going into the keyhole outside.
BACK TO:
ROOM 716
Ted tries to pull the syringe out of his leg, but yanking it
makes it break in two, the plunger in his hand, and the needle
still stuck in his leg.
Ted staggers and grabs hold of the dead woman's foot for
support as he steps on the remote control, flipping the TV
on to the Nudie channel, just as...
Man opens the door.
Man stands at the door, drunk Wife unconscious on one arm,
the door knob in the other hand. He's looking mean.
Man's POV: focused on the dead woman in the bedsprings. We
pan up the dead woman's leg to find Ted holding her foot. We
pan down Ted's leg to find the hypodermic needle jutting
out... then pan over to the other hand holding the broken
syringe plunger.
We pan over to the Nudie channel, then down to the fire
blazing behind the children. Pan up to the dripping champagne
bottle in Sarah's hand, then over to the cigarette hanging
out of Juancho's mouth. Juancho tosses his cigarette out of
his mouth to an area behind him. Another blaze starts
immediately.
Man drops his Wife to the floor.
In the WIDE SHOT of Ted and the children, we see that the
fireworks are bursting big and bright outside the window
behind them. Almost as bright as the flames eating through
the room.
Man simply glares at Ted. Finally Man speaks...
MAN
Did they misbehave?
Ted stares blankly at Man (the camera) as the sprinklers
burst on... drenching the room as the picture
FADES TO BLACK
FOUR ROOMS
FADE UP ON
The elevator door opens and Ted wheels out his tray into the
hallway.
There's been a bit of an effort to make himself appear a bit
less disheveled than in the last scene. He's only minorly
successful in the attempt. His uniform still looks like shit,
his hair looks tousled, and he walks with a limp.
He wheels the cart up to the penthouse door and KNOCKS at
the door.
A woman opens the door, it's Angela from Alex's story.
ANGELA
Hi, Theodore.
TED
What the hell are you doing here?
She holds up the drink she has in her hand.
ANGELA
Having a drink.
TED
Is that crazy husband of yours in
there?
ANGELA
Are you kidding, he'll be asleep
till Christmas.
From behind her we hear:
VOICE (O.S.)
Entrez, entrez.
Angela steps aside and Ted wheels in the tray.
