A big sign identifies this old brick building as the home of
"The London Underground" -- a weekly newspaper in the
"Village Voice" mode, only scuzzier.
STOCK FOOTAGE a train rolling through the countryside.
SUPER TITLE: BUCHAREST
A cab pulls up to the front of the building. Amy gets out and
walks up to the front door.
16
She pulls an envelope out of her bag. It's the one that the
tape came in. She checks the name on the envelope -- MARLA
CHEN. Compares it to a name on the mailboxes.
SIDEWALK - DAY
Amy breaks through the doors of the building. She hits two of
the ten stairs down to the sidewalk. People walking by hardly
notice.
Up ahead, a police car is turning down the street. She stops
and walks calmly, diverting her eyes. The police car races
by, and Amy walks faster, and faster, then runs.
23
Charles and Amy walk and talk. It's pissing down rain.
Charles hold an umbrella for the two to share.
AMY
Why'd you give me this story?
CHARLES
Who else would have taken it? Either
they're going to think it's bull-shit, or
they're going to be too afraid of it. But
Amy Klein... Tell me it's real Amy.
AMY
It's real -- or I'm crazy.
CHARLES
Well, either way, it's a good story.
AMY
I've got leads. I'll know in the end.
CHARLES
You know, Amy dearest, for the average
person, hunger for knowledge is like
hunger... for food. We want to know just
enough to take the edge off our appetite.
Then we're satisfied, and we stop. But
you... you're like a glutton. You can't
help over-eating.
AMY
I don't see you complaining.
CHARLES
But you see, that's the point. That's why
I need you. Because all that stuff I
don't eat... I still want. So I send you
in to do the eating for me, and so I get
to experience it, without actually
suffering any mental indigestion.
AMY
That's for me...
CHARLES
Nobody's forcing anything down your
throat. Correct?
38
AMY
No.
CHARLES
You see, Amy, you never grew up with all
this Catholic god and guilt stuff. It
doesn't mean anything to you. I worry
about god and heaven and hell. Not during
the day, you understand, but around three
in the morning, it keeps me up. I want to
know what's coming. What's up in heaven
and down in hell, or even if there's
nothing. It's useful, when you're making
plans. So go find out and we'll tell the
world.
AMY
You know, Charles, there's something
vaguely demonic about you.
CHARLES
Did you know, the word "demon" comes from
the Greek word for "knowledge." As in
"demonstrate."
AMY
No, I didn't know that.
Charles shakes his head, disgusted.
CHARLES
American education.
They're in front of Amy's Hotel now. Charles flags down a
CAB.
CHARLES
Then back to your room, lie down in your
coffin until the hours of daylight have
passed, as is your wont -- then go get me
my story. A
MY
You don't have to worry.
CHARLES
I never do. I'm not here to save people
and I'm not here to judge them. I just
take `em as they come. And use them as
they pass by. I'll be at the Soffitel.
39
Charles hops in the cab and drives off as Amy walks up the
steps to the Hotel lobby. Amy watches him go, waves, then
spins back towards the curb. She flags down a cab and hops
in.
A ragged, run-down place, looking bleak and ugly in the
bright light of day. We see the street sign, identifying the
place -- Poteilari and Minvara. A cab pulls up and Amy gets
out.
She crosses the street, passes one side door -- and then
comes to a building that's been sealed up -- doors and
windows cemented shut with cinder-blocks.
Beyond a narrow railing is a stairway, pressed up sideways
against the building, running down to a basement entrance.
Amy looks down the stairway to it's narrow bottom. The stairs
and the bottom are littered with trash. A filthy mattress
lies at the very bottom. Amy heads down.
At the bottom of the stairs, there's a wooden door. A hole
has been punched through it and a heavy padlocked chain has
been threaded through it and through a heavy hasp that's been
bolted to the door frame. Some official government notice of
some kind has been tacked to the door -- long rendered
unreadable by the effects of time.
Amy inspects the padlock. It's heavy and uncompromising. She
tugs on the door and it opens to the limits of the chain --
but that's only a few inches. Amy peers into the darkness
beyond, but can't see a thing.
She looks down at the mattress that she's standing on, steps
to the side and shoves it up.
Then, as if the light breaks, she reaches out, grabs the hasp
and pulls. The bolts holding the hasp to the wall are loose.
They slide out with it. She tugs the whole thing free and
pulls the door open.
There is a narrow corridor beyond, all in gloom. Amy enters.
Amy comes unsteadily down out of her Hotel.
More shadows than light.
She comes around a corner and onto a narrow street, moving
fast, her feet making loud echoey clip-clops on the street.
There's a bum, dressed in rags, leaning up against the wall
of a building.
As she approaches him, he stirs slightly. Then she looks more
closely.
The man is eating something very crunchy. He stares at her
blankly as he picks crickets off the wall and devours them,
one by one. He offers her one, and smiles.
60
Amy leaps back, turns and runs. Some distance down the
street, there seems to be a flicker of light, a trace of
noise.
She scrambles toward it. It's coming up from a subway grate.
She throws herself down on it.
Down below she can hear the roar of a subway train passing
below. Indirect, flickering light shines up from below.
She looks up. There's a subway entrance. She hurries toward
it.
