From a distance, the Nation s Monuments stand awash in
the harsh light of morning.
CAMERA finds a BLACK PORSCHE as it pulls to the security
fence of a warehouse. The imposing structure is
surrounded by a chainlink fence and barbed wire.
The Porsche is waved through security and heads straight
into the warehouse.
The din of the diners fades away as Linda slips out onto
the restaurant's balcony. She find Sebastian leaning
against a railing, breathing in the night air.
SEBASTIAN
Hey...
LINDA
I thought you'd gone.
SEBASTIAN
Where would I go?
He looks out over the sweep of the city, the twinkling
lights of D.C. and darkness of the Potomac river.
SEBASTIAN (cont'd)
Twenty years ago there were no
computers, no fax machines, no cell
phones. I was just wondering what the
world will be like twenty years from
now... if what we're doing will change
everything.
LINDA
A little "I am become death... the
shatterer of worlds"?
SEBASTIAN
Something like that.
LINDA
Since the day I met, all you wanted to
do was change the world.
She puts her hand on his shoulder.
LINDA (cont'd)
Listen, I know we've... I mean... well
... I just want you to know how proud
I am of you. I know it probably
doesn't mean a lot...
SEBASTIAN
Actually it does.
(beat)
I guess since you were there from the
beginning, you know me better than
anyone else on this godforsaken
planet.
LINDA
You're positively maudlin. You should
be happy. Do you have any idea what
you've accomplished?
SEBASTIAN
Yeah... but I was working so hard, I
didn't realize I'd have no one to
share it with.
Sebastian heads back inside. But he stops and turns back.
SEBASTIAN (cont'd)
I don't suppose we could turn back the
clock for a night and you could come
home with me?
Her look says it all. Too much water under the bridge.
SEBASTIAN (cont'd)
Right. Sorry. Too much champagne.
He turns and heads back into the party. As he heads in he
passes Matt heading out. He and Sebastian exchange
"Heys".
MATT
What was that about?
LINDA
Nothing. It's just... He is who he is.
Sometimes I just have to be reminded.
CUT TO:
Flying over Washington D. C. , we cross the Potomac and
circle the five-cornered building, looking particularly
gloomy on this grey day.
SEBASTIAN (V.0.)
Six years ago, this committee
commissioned me with a very specific
task...
As Linda, Matt and Sebastian head to their cars.
MATT
Yo. Reality check! What the hell was
that about?
SEBASTIAN
Keep your voice down.
MATT
The protocol works. Why'd you tell
them it didn't?
SEBASTIAN
I wasn't ready for them to know.
MATT
But they're the oversight committee.
They're supposed to know.
LINDA
I'm sure he had a reason.
(firmly)
You did have a reason, didn't you,
Sebastian?
SEBASTIAN
I had more than a reason. I had a
goddamn epiphany.
They reach his Porsche.
SEBASTIAN (cont'd)
What do you think they'd do if they
know we could send a subject into
phase shift and pull it back out
again? How many seconds would it take
for them to take over the whole
project, bringing in their soldiers to
test the formula on. We'd have lost
control of it by the end of the week.
LINDA
It's their money, Sebastian. It's
going to happen eventually.
SEBASTIAN
I know. But not yet. There's too much
for us to learn. I don't want my hands
tied by their political agenda when we
go to phase three.
MATT
Well, then... mind telling us how
you're gonna get a human test-subject
for phase three without the committee
finding out?
SEBASTIAN
That's easy. I've decided to test the
procedure ...
At a wall storage box, she removes a pair of Thermal
Goggles and slips them on.
Linda drives Sebastian's apartment. She spots his black
Porsche in the parking lot. She pulls over to the curb,
jumps out of her car and heads into the building.
A couple of pretty girls exit a bar and stumble to their
apartments.
Linda passes through the revolving doors of her apartment
building. A few beats later, as if caught by a gust of
wind, the revolving door slowly turns on its own.
On a fire escape, we see the ladder shake and descend to
the ground. The metal rattles back and forth as if
something were climbing it.
We slowly crane up the fire escape and hold on a window.
Through the wispy curtains and dirty glass we can see
Linda enter the room. The panel of glass fogs from
Sebastian's breath. The fog wipes away, seemingly by
itself.
But then through the window we see Matt walk into the
living room and put his arms around Linda's waist. We
hear a shocked intake of air.
He kisses her neck and then slowly unzips her dress. Her
dress falls to the floor. Matt takes off his sport coat
and drapes it over a chair, while Linda unfastens the
buttons of his shirt. They're laughing now, exchanging
kisses.
Matt reaches behind Linda and unhooks her bra. He kisses
his way down her neck to her breasts. Linda pulls him to
her.
Suddenly the window shatters. Startled, both Matt and
Linda jump back covering themselves.
We hear Sebastian's footsteps as he retreats down the
fire escape.
A moment later Matt reaches the window and peers out. He
sees the fire escape ladder slowly rise back up down
below.
LINDA
What was it?
MATT
I don't know. I don't see anything.
Matt picks up a piece of glass and examines it.
MATT (cont'd)
It's like something hit it.
Linda picks up the phone and dials.
Sarah sees the dead dog lying prone on its bedding. She
eyes it curiously and opens the cage door.
Empty street. We hear whistling. Splashes of water splat
out from shallow puddles,,as Sebastian walks through
them.
SEBASTIAN'S POV - A car approaches. As it drives by we
see Matt and Linda inside, heading back to the warehouse.
The footsteps stop.
SEBASTIAN'S VOICE
Hmmm.
We see the footsteps start to head back toward the
warehouse.
The stately stone house sits on a finely manicured lawn
in one of the nicest neighborhoods in town. Linda's car
is parked on the curb in front.
We break from a typical establishing shot and as the
CAMERA tracks closer to the house, we realize that we are
SEBASTIAN'S POV
We hear breathing and footsteps as we push through some
bushes and head toward a bay window which looks into the
Kramer living room.
Through the glass we see LINDA and MATT seated across
from DR. KRAMER. We can't hear what they're saying but it
certainly looks serious. Kramer puffs on a pipe and
strokes his beard, shaking his head.
Kramer rises and shakes hands with Linda and Matt, and
the three of them head toward the front door.
We move away from the window and track toward the front
door. As the door opens we begin to hear the tail end of
the conversation.
KRAMER
I'll call General Caster right now and
convene the oversight committee
tomorrow.
LINDA
Thank you, sir.
MATT
What do we do in the meantime?
KRAMER
Just sit tight and wait for my call.
Matt and Linda head down to her car. Kramer heads back
inside.
In the dim spillover light from house, Kramer crosses to
the telephone- box against the back of the house. It Is
open and several of the wires have been pulled. He looks
around, spooked and puffs out a cloud of smoke from his
pipe. For the briefest of instants, Sebastian's face is
visible in the smoke. Kramer jumps back in surprise and
the pipe drops from his mouth. He gives a small sharp
cry, but deep indentations appear across his mouth and
his cries are stifled. In the darkness, we can make out
his form writhing as if possessed. The struggle continues
a beat until Kramer manages to break free.
KRAMER
Help! HELP! MARTHA! HELP!
As Kramer runs, he looks behind him. But no one's there.
WHAM! Something slams into Kramer and he tumbles, rolling
into the pool. But as he hits water there's not just one
splash, but TWO. In the water next to him is human shaped
AIR-POCKET. It's Sebastian displacing the water. And
because of the water displacement, we can clearly see two
arms pushing Kramer beneath the water's surface.
MARTHA KRAMER opens the bedroom window and looks down at
the pool. All she can see is her husband drowning... his
flailing limbs kicking up a massive air bubble around
him. She races from the window. Kramer kicks and flails
for a few moments and then his limbs stop moving. A
moment later he floats to surface, face down. The AIR
POCKET bobs over to the pool ladder, and rising from the
pool, we see Sebastian's body outlined in sheets of
water. The shape melts away in a cascading waterfall
until all we can see of Sebastian are the hundreds of
tiny droplets still clinging to his body, caught in the
light like twinkling bulbs on a Christmas tree. The shape
disappears into the darkness. A moment later Martha
emerges from the house and sees her husband floating face
down in the pool. She screams.
Linda and Matt stumble out into the blazing sunshine.
Emergency crews close from all directions, sirens
roaring. A trail of smoke drifts higher and higher into
the sky.
An ambulance pulls up next to them and the paramedics hop
out, immediately putting a blanket around her and
treating Matt's wounds.
MARINE GUARD
What happened?
LINDA
We lived.
Linda looks over her shoulder at the traces of the ruin
and she sees a shimmer of heat rising from the ground...
almost as if something was there.
FADE
OUT:
Hollow Man
Writers : Gary Scott ThompsonAndrew W. Marlowe
Genres : HorrorSci-FiThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb