The horizon. The morning sun streams over the green mountains.
Lincoln lies sleeping, his head buried under the pillow. Off a
beeping sound, he stirs and squints up at the mirrored ceiling:
- - ETHER CALL PENDING ; ACCEPT OR SEND TO MESSAGE BANK?
LINCOLN
Accept.
The etherscreen resolves Ester's face, fresh and bright.
ESTER (ON ETHERSCREEN)
Lincoln? I missed you at breakfast.
LINCOLN
I guess I overslept.
ESTER (ON ETHERSCREEN)
I just wanted to check we're still on
for tonight. The interact.
LINCOLN
Right. I'll be there.
ESTER (ON ETHERSCREEN)
I'll see you then. Enjoy your day!
Her face blinks out. Lincoln gets out of bed with a smile.
12
INT . RESIDENTIAL BLOCK - SECTOR FOUR - DAY
Lincoln exits his apartment and heads up the walkway. We reveal
the walkway ends at another ethergate, governing residential
access. Lincoln swipes his ethercuff o v e r a scanner and a gate
swings open. He heads on, the gate hissing closed behind him.
13
INT . NUTRITION PLAZA - SECTOR FOUR - DAY
Ravel's Pavane plays overhead. The plaza is emptying as residents
leave for work. Lincoln arrives at the service counter. He
swipes his ethercuff and greets the clerk with an amiable grin.
LINCOLN
Just juice today. I'm late for work.
NUTRITION CLERK
Too bad. I gotta serve the full meal.
Lincoln shrugs, his gaze wandering past her into the kitchens.
His grin fades as he spots TWO CENSORS talking to a busboy. Then
the view is lost as he's served an oatmeal and juice breakfast.
12.
14
The deep steady thrum of the extractor fans. We are TIGHT ON the
frame of an airlock. Hissing, it indents and opens. Lincoln steps
through, eyes black and uncanny. The tri-key g l i n t i n g , dangling
from his fingers. Scanning around, he fixes on a section of wall.
He wipes off some soot. Legible beneath is a number. Twenty. He
assimilates this. Then turns his gaze up the extractor shaft.
50
INT . ELEVATOR SHAFT
Looking up an elevator shaft. The red pulse of the lode-poles,
rippling downward as an elevator descends from the surface.
51
INT . OUTER THRESHOLD - LEVEL THREE
A tiled chamber. Draped off cubicles. The elevator doors slide
open. An outsider emerges, dressed in a flightsuit, emblazoned
"Medical Courier". He announces himself, seemingly to no one-
T H E COURIER
Clearance code: NG-230-2DS.
V O I C E ON SPEAKER
New Gaza Healthcare. Okay, you're
clear. Go ahead and get undressed.
52
INT . DECONTAMINATION CHAMBER
The pressure door hisses, heaving open. The courier steps inside,
naked, covering his genitals, some goggles slung around his neck.
He takes position on two marked footpads and puts on the goggles-
T H E COURIER
I tell you, I hate this fucking r u n . I
always leave this place with sunburn.
V O I C E ON SPEAKER
Try full-course decontamination. It's
even more fun. Especially the colonics.
The lights blink out. A red glow rises. Twin planes of light
scrape across the courier, infra-red, searing his epidermis.
53
INT . INNER THRESHOLD - LEVEL THREE
A chamber like the first. The inner pressure door hisses open.
The courier emerges, dripping wet from a decon s h o w e r . He goes
to a cubicle, grabbing a towel and dries himself off. Laid out
within are some scrubs. Beside them is A STEEL COOLER, inset
with a thermostat and embossed with the crosshatch insignia.
45.
54
THE DARKNESS OF THE TRENCH. Lincoln and Ester running along the
lode-way, stumbling over the buffers. Above them, the dust
flails in lashing tongues, starkly depicted by the halogens.
81
EXT . PROCESSING PLANT - NIGHT
WHITE UNIFORMS IN THE NIGHT - censors spill forth into the
halogen light, splitting in all directions. Scheer suddenly
notices the corona of light from the front of the complex. He
barks something inaudible to his men, launching into a run.
82
EXT . THE GATEWAY - NIGHT
THE GATEWAY LOOMING ABOVE. Beneath, Lincoln and Ester, on their
knees, clawing at the dust. Like burrowing animals, trying to
widen the gap between the foot of the gate and the lodeway.
83
EXT . FRONT OF THE INSTITUTE - NIGHT
A LONE WHITE UNIFORM. As Scheer reaches the forecourt, stopping
to scan the spotlit view, the veils of the duststorm. His face
tightening with urgency. Suddenly he taps his headset, barking-
S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET)
The lodeway! Flood it! Light it up!
84
EXT . THE GATEWAY - NIGHT
THE RISING HUM OF THE LODE-POLES barely audible over the storm.
Lincoln and Ester, washed by pulsing red light. Ester recoiling,
her arm flinging back from the pull. Lincoln grabbing her, his
own arm straining now. The polarity tugging their ethercuffs.
85
EXT . THE LODEWAY - NIGHT
THE RED WASH OF LIGHT from the lodeway as Scheer races up the
edge, eyes trawling the trench for his quarry. His pace now
suddenly dropping, slowing to a halt. He doubles over, catching
his breath. More white uniforms now appear from the dust as the
Censors, unable to match his pace, finally catch up. The first
reaching him, Scheer pulls upright, bellowing over the wind-
SCHEER
G e t me a bird!
CENSOR
A bird?! In this storm?!
SCHEER
The y got out! They got past the gate!
57.
Scheer spins on his heel back towards The Institute. The Censor
lingers, confused. Then he fixes on the lodeway. Floating past
in the red wash are the luminous blue seams of two ethercuffs.
86
EXT . THE DESERT - NIGHT
The perimeter wall silhouetted in the middle-distance. Lincoln
and Ester scramble through the scrub, blinded by dust, driven by
momentum. As Ester starts lagging behind, Lincoln grabs her arm-
LINCOLN
Ester ! We have to keep going!
But Ester resists him, breaking loose from his grasp. Lincoln
looks at her, uncomprehending. Until he sees her expression, the
harrowed stare in her eyes, the labored heaving of her chest.
LINCOLN
Ester?
Ester staggers back, losing balance, reeling as if spun by the
storm. Her eyes widening, senses flooding. The howling wind, the
swirling dustclouds, the pendent gulf of black sky. Her reel
returning her to face Lincoln, Ester opens her mouth to speak.
But all that comes is A SCREAM. A scream from deep within, shrill
and hysterical, the only articulation she can find. Lincoln grabs
her and covers her mouth. Fighting to stifle her, rocking to her
convulsions. But Ester keeps screaming. A scream of everything.
87
INT . BEDROOM - SOMEWHERE - LATE NIGHT
All is still. Just a muted shudder of wind on glass. The room is
in shadow. All we see is a canopied bed where a figure,
obscured, lies sleeping. The still is disrupted by a chime. The
figure stirs, fumbling at the nightstand. A holoframe resolves,
the light revealing Dr. Sanger, rumpled by sleep. He peers into
the holoframe to find the face of Merrick, gaunt with concern-
Merrick (ON HOLOFRAME)
He n r y . . . There's been a breach.
H A R D CUT TO BLACK.
SLOW FADE UP:
88
EXT . THE RED ROCKS - DAWN
A horizon. A brim of dawn over the red rocks. The view is framed
by the mouth of a cave. Lincoln sleeps within, slumped against
the rock, his head bowed heavily. The touch of first light opens
his eyes. His brow creasing, as if waking from a bad dream into
a worse reality. He looks around only to find himself alone. He
gets up, a little shaky at first, then ventures out of the cave.
58.
He emerges onto a ledge, perhaps fifty feet up. He pauses, eyes
adjusting to the quality of light. He sees the storm has reduced
to a low wind, combing the floorland o f scrub. Now, across the
ledge, he sees Ester. Perched on an outcrop, hugging her knees,
watching the sunrise over the desert. He crosses and lowers to a
crouch beside her. Ester turns to him with a confused frown-
ESTER
W h e r e did all the green go?
Lincoln looks deep into her troubled eyes. He answers gently-
LINCOLN
The r e is no green. The windows in
there... they were just pictures.
Ester absorbs this with difficulty. Lincoln rises again and
stands looking out across the desert, into the barren unknown.
89
EXT . THE SKY OVER THE DESERT - MORNING
From the massive sky grows a glinting shape. Like a helicopter
but sleeker, aquiline. Without combustion, its only noise is the
sibilance of blades slicing air. It is known as a "whisper".
90
INT . WHISPER - MORNING
The pilot jockeys with the thermals. Scheer rides shotgun. Now
in civvies, scanning the terrain with electronic binoculars. The
flight console beeps. He taps a keypad. A holoframe resolves:
CENSOR (ON HOLOFRAME)
Ground team checking in.
SCHEER
Anything?
CENSOR (ON HOLOFRAME)
The storm pretty much covered their
tracks. We're scanning for thermals
b u t the hotter it gets, the harder it
is to isolate a heat signature. I don't
know, sir, it's a big desert out there.
91
EXT . CHASM - THE RED ROCKS - DAY
The desert sun clefts the chasm into light and shadow. Lincoln
trudges into view, Ester lagging behind. He stops to let her
catch up, only to watch her slump onto a rock. He allows her a
moment to rest and walks to where the chasm comes to an end.
59.
He surveys the terrain. His eyes roam the carpet of scrub, now
narrowing on an inconsistency. A faint strip where nothing seems
to grow. Tracing its lineage, he walks a few feet out. Then
drops to a crouch and starts clawing away at the dust.
His fingers meet something hard. He sweeps off the dust to expose
a layer of concrete. Continuing, revealing the ghost of a line.
What we might recognize as a lane marker but a curiosity to him.
Continuing, opening a window in the dust. Now his fingers snag
o n something. He tugs it and it gives a little, dust crumbling to
reveal a section of rusted chainlink. A corner of metal is
visible. Lincoln exposes the rest. A sign, barely legible: "US
Government - Restricted Area". He frowns, trying to assimilate.
Ester comes up to join him. Off her anxious look, he decides-
LINCOLN
I think I've found a path.
92
EXT . THE GREEN MOUNTAINS - DAY
W h i t e rock blanketed by stands of fir and ponderosa pine. A
whisper skims over the treecaps, circling in on a high shelf.
Here, remotely nestled in a clearing, stands a glass villa.
93
INT . THE GLASS VILLA - DAY
The flood of light, the majestic view lend an air of beatitude.
The decor is minimalist with Native American accents, kokopelli
spirits in carved silhouette. Dr. Sanger stands at a glass wall,
looking out across the green mountain valley. On the sofa sits
Merrick, now in civvies, still gaunt from worry. The air stirs
as a maid ushers in A WOMAN - 30's, all business, sharp blue
eyes, a severe, mannish coiffure. Her name is ELLEN CROWNE.
CROWNE
Good morning, gentlemen.
SANGER
Bernard, this is Ellen Crowne from our
legal department. Ellen, this is
Bernard Merrick, director of products.
MERRICK
Thank you for coming out here.
CROWNE
Well when Henry called me I got the
sense it wasn't for a social visit.
They settle at a table. A jug of icewater a n d glasses laid out.
CROWNE
I understand there was an incident?
60.
MERRICK
First, let me stress there's no way we
could have anticipated what happened...
CROWNE
We're on the same team, Mr. Merrick.
Just give me the facts down-and-dirty.
MERRICK
(uneasy, clears his throat)
We'v e lost two of our products. They
escaped containment last night.
Crowne casts a troubled look at Sanger. Merrick quickly adds-
Merrick (cont'd)
However, we have all available
resources dedicated to the search.
CROWNE
How exactly did this happen?
MERRICK
We'r e still piecing it together.
CROWNE
Do we expect more products to escape?
DR. SANGER
Don't be so alarmist, Ellen.
CROWNE
I'm sorry, Henry, but you asked me
here to assess our liabilities.
MERRICK
To answer your question, we condition
our products with a deterrent. A fear of
contamination. And thereby of the outer
environment. So to escape, they first
have to escape their conditioning.
Crowne pauses to absorb this and to light a slim black cigarette.
CROWNE
Containment is one of the terms of our
state health license. The fact it was
compromised could put us in violation.
DR. SANGER
Bureaucracy.
61.
CROWNE
Henry , it was a bloody battle getting
our license through in the first place.
DR. SANGER
They're not going to pull our license,
Ellen. We have a lot of friends on the
Commission. Not to mention the goodwill
we earned in DC when we took over the
facility; a bunker complex for a bio-
chemical war that never happened... We
relieved them of a costly embarrassment.
CROWNE
I'm not sure we can rely on that.
DR. SANGER
Alright . What do you suggest?
CROWNE
First, I need you to level with me.
What are our chances of finding them?
MERRICK
Well, in our favor, they've never been
outside containment. They'd have no
coordinates, no sense of direction.
CROWNE
I don't see how that's in our favor.
MERRICK
They're in the middle of the desert.
Food and water become an issue.
CROWNE
So they might return to the trough?
MERRICK
Possibly.
CROWNE
And if not? How long could they last?
MERRICK
A few days maybe. But there is another
variable. We maintain the products in a
sterile environment. So basically their
immune systems are untested. Toxins,
pathogens, environmentals t h e rest of
us overcome routinely, to them...
62.
DR. SANGER
That's a little drastic. Some immune
systems are more adaptive than others.
CROWNE
Let's take the drastic case. What then?
MERRICK
Well . . . the male, we could cover. Fast-
track another generation before the
sponsor ever needed access. The female
comes under the maternity plan. She's
three months pregnant. Even if we fast-
tracked another generation, we couldn't
fast-track the pregnancy. We'd miss the
delivery date, the sponsor would wonder
why and there would be... difficulties.
Crowne looks worried. Sanger pours a glass of icewater.
DR. SANGER
Even so, the worst may not happen.
CROWNE
We haven't even touched on the worst. If
these products reach a populated area,
there's the problem of scrutiny.
DR. SANGER
Ellen , we operate under State license on
a lease from the Federal Government...
CROWNE
( c u t s him off, harshly)
We slipped through a loophole in the
clone laws, Henry. And they only let
u s through because they smelt money.
And they gave us a government basement
to cover their own a s s e s not ours. It's
at the core of our license - why we
screen potential sponsors, why we make
them sign discretion agreements, why
containment is such a critical factor -
to limit the extent of public scrutiny.
DR. SANGER
E i t h e r way, it's unlikely they'd get
that far. It's at least twenty miles to
the next settlement. Right, Bernard?
Merrick hesitates before nodding his assent. Crowne pounces on it-
63.
CROWNE
Something to add, Mr. Merrick?
MERRICK
I just don't think we should under-
estimate them. Especially the male.
DR. SANGER
And I don't think we should panic.
He cautions Merrick with a discreet look, then shakes a pill
from a bottle. Crowne looks forward to both men. Very serious.
CROWNE
Gentlemen, whatever happens we need
t o keep one thing clearly in mind. As
far as the world at large goes, we are
just another medical services company.
Anything that alters that perception
puts us at risk. And we cannot rely on
the sanction of the law to protect us.
Whenever and wherever and in whatever
condition we recover these products, we
have to stay beyond reproach. All it
takes is one nudge to put us in the
spotlight. Then you'll see how fast
politicians can run for cover.
Merrick shifts, uneasy. Sanger takes the pill with a bitter smile-
DR. SANGER
I n other words we need to find them
o r else. That's very astute, Ellen.
94
EXT . DESERT HIGHWAY - SUNSET
The dust swirls and puffs across a highway of yesteryear. A dirt
track but for patches of exposed concrete and angles of buckled
lampposts. The empty path reaches to a blood-red sunset.
95
EXT . SCRAPYARD - SUNSET
The dust skims over mountains of rusted scrap. Nestled in the
mountains is a shack. A sign creaks in the breeze "Osmund D e e r ,
Licensed Salvage Merchant". On the porch sits an old man in a
greasy ballcap a n d dungarees. This is the eponymous owner, OZZIE.
He's sitting on a lounger, surveying his empire, enjoying a beer
and a cigarette. Exhaling a drag of smoke, his eyes crease to a
squint. He sees something through the smoke, silhouetted against
the sunset. An approaching figure, wary, like a flighty animal.
64.
OZZIE
Hello?
The silhouetted figure doesn't answer, just stares back at him.
OZZIE
Can I help you?
This seems to get a response. The figure ventures closer. We
recognize Lincoln. Exhausted, dust-covered and dry-throated -
LINCOLN
My friend... she needs water.
96
INT . BACK ROOM - THE SHACK - SUNSET
A mass of technology and furniture from recent and distant past.
Lincoln lowers Ester onto a threadbare sofa. Ozzie, excited to
have visitors, bustles up with a water gallon, pouring a glass.
Lincoln takes it and tips it to Ester's lips. She coughs it out
at first. Then takes the glass and starts drinking with vigor.
Ozzie sets down the water gallon in front of his visitors. Then
settles in an armchair and cracks open a beer. It lends the mood,
albeit strained, of a social visit. Lonely old Ozzie wanting to
make it so. Despite which, both men have an eye on each other.
OZZIE
Got stuck in that supercell, didya?
Lincoln eyes him, wary of the question. Ozzie reads confusion-
OZZIE
Supercellstorm , that's what they call
it on the news anyways. I n my day, we
just called `em "big ol' h o w l e r s " .
Ozzie chuckles to himself. It seems to put his visitor at ease.
OZZIE
Yep, I heard it shut down some of the
lodeways. Dust in the works, I guess.
Where were you folks headed anyways?
Lincoln gulps down some water, deciding an answer. Then ventures-
LINCOLN
Away.
OZZIE
A w a y ? You mean, like outta s t a t e ?
LINCOLN
" O u t of state"...
65.
The term is meaningless to Lincoln but he likes the sound of it.
Ozzie grins. This is starting to feel like a real social visit.
OZZIE
N o w where's my manners gone? I'm Ozzie.
Osmund r e a l l y . But folks call me Ozzie.
An awkward lull as Ozzie waits for his visitor to reciprocate.
OZZIE
S o m e t i m e s I like to make a joke of it,
my last name bein' D e e r . . . "O. Deer".
O z z i e chuckles but the pun seems lost on his visitor. He lets it
drop. The awkward silence returns. Lincoln drinks the water,
wondering if this strange old man is as harmless as he appears.
OZZIE
We l l now, looks like yer g i r l f r i e n d ' s
made herself at home.
Lincoln looks at Ester, slumped over, asleep on the sofa. Ozzie
puts a finger to his lips, beckoning his visitor out of the room.
97
EXT . SCRAPYARD - DUSK
The porch light comes on, casting the scrapyard in grades of
light and shadow. Ozzie steps out onto the porch, lighting a
cigarette. His visitor hovering at the threshold, he offers the
pack. Lincoln steps out and takes one. Ozzie lights it for him-
OZZIE
Yer girlfriend sure is pretty.
His visitor looks at him curiously. Ozzie misinterprets that
he's said something out of turn. Time to change the subject-
OZZIE
So what's with them tattoos, huh?
He taps his forehead. Lincoln fingers his crosshatch, suddenly
aware of it now and suspicious of the question. Ozzie palliates-
OZZIE
Hey , in the eye of the beholder, right?
Now this place, this is beautiful to
me. This is my place. I own it. `May
not look like much but you'd be
surprised. C'mon, lemme show you...
Ozzie moseys into the scrapyard, beckoning his visitor. Lincoln
hesitates, then follows him, sensing it's better to play along.
66.
OZZIE
M o s t a t h i s heavy stuff's industrial
scrap. Comes in from all over. Easy way
round the recyclin' l a w s . Me, I sell it
on to the boondock b o y s for meltdown.
Other stuff, I pick up at the scrap
markets. Fix it up, `fetches a price.
The y reach a vehicle shell. A rust-pocked chassis, canted on its
axle, we might recognize it as an automobile from our own era.
OZZIE
Fossil fuel transport. This piece o'
junk's a collector's item. All that
Age of the Wheel nostalgia, "elegant
era of transport" bullshit. I find the
parts, she's as good as solid gold.
Ozzie pats his investment and moves to another rusted metal pile.
Steepled by rail tracks, we see elevator sheaves, tension cables.
OZZIE
Now this here's got a colorful history.
Came in from this ol' g o v e r n m e n t bunker
out in the valley. `Got shut down way
back. Then this new outfit took over,
stripped the place out. I guess they're
doin' s o m e more remodelling cause I
just had `em in again the other day...
( a tug of smoke, reflective)
Hump`n dump crew. Nice fellas.
Lincoln frowns. The term is familiar. The taste of smoke, a hint.
But his memory has been clouded by trauma. Ozzie reads his face-
OZZIE
You okay there?
Lincoln looks at him, something breaking the clouds. A sense of
danger, indistinct. Suddenly cautious, he stubs his cigarette-
LINCOLN
I'm going to check on my friend.
98
INT . FRONT ROOM - THE SHACK - DUSK
A front room turned into a front office. Piles of paper teeter
atop junk furniture. A bankers lap we might recognize from our
own era glows over a desk where Ozzie is rummaging, looking for
something. He stops to peer through and check on his visitors-
67.
The woman still lies asleep on the sofa. The man is sitting
beside her armchair, head bowed, seemingly plunged in thought.
O z z i e resumes rummaging to find a crumpled delivery note. He
reviews it for a moment. Then quickly clears away some more
papers to uncover a keypad device. It is known as a "holocom".
He taps a key and a holoframe resolves. Then taps in some digits
from the delivery note. The holoframe snows with static. Then a
crosshatch insignia appears, spinning in 3D:
RECORDED VOICE (ON HOLOCOM)
Welcome to The Sanger Institute. If you
know your party's extension, press...
LINCOLN (O.S.)
What are you doing?
Ozzie jerks round to find his visitor suddenly standing there.
He fumbles on the holocom keypad and the crosshatch blinks out.
OZZIE
Nuthin . I wasn't doin nuthin .
Lincoln frowns, the sense of danger becoming more distinct.
Ozzie reads his visitor's troubled expression, realizing-
OZZIE
I knew it... them clothes... them
weird tattoos... I mean, I heard
stories from those guys but I never...
O f f his visitor's frown, Ozzie bites his tongue. He's cornered
in this cramped space with a freak of science. Time to backpedal-
OZZIE
N o t that I believe `em... buncha c r a z y
stories... nuthin t o do with you...
He chuckles feebly. But his visitor just stares back at him,
pupils dilated and dark, somehow inhuman. Time to wriggle out-
OZZIE
W h a d d y a s a y we just forget about it,
huh? How about I go getcha a beer?
He makes a move past but his visitor doesn't budge. Lincoln
senses danger in this old man, whose fear is now manifest-
OZZIE
What e v e r you want... Just take it...
Whaddya w a n t . . . ? You want money...?
68.
His visitor frowns. Ozzie quickly unlocks a cashbox. He grabs
some colored plastic cards and offers them like meat to a lion.
OZZIE
I t ' s all I got... Take it... just
please... just don't hurt me...
His visitor takes a blue card, inspecting it like a curiosity.
Then steps closer. Ozzie shrinks back. An ominous moment, then-
LINCOLN
" O u t of state" - how do I get there?
O f f Ozzie's cowering and confused look, we -
C U T TO:
99
EXT . SKY OVER THE DESERT - NIGHT
F r o m darkness grows a seed of light. The whisper flies low and
quiet, its spotlight roving the undulant desert. Now picking out
metal glints as it banks over a scrapyard. Now training its beam
on a figure in the dust whirl beneath. Ozzie, his hair flying
wild, gesticulating madly. The whisper follows his directions,
nosing onwards, its spotlight corrugating across the red rocks.
100
EXT . SHUTTLE STOP - NIGHT
I n the middle of nowhere, a canopied platform. Not unlike the sub-
w a y platform, it borders a deeply trenched lodeway. A wave of dust
rolls in, swelled by the whisper, landed beyond. It seems to bring
Scheer to the platform. He scans around for a clue, a footprint
perhaps. But somehow he already knows. He looks up the lodeway,
eyes honing. The deep black line stretches far into the night.
101
INT . THE GLASS VILLA - NIGHT
Silence. Still. Sanger sits nursing a cup of herb tea. Crowne
sits smoking. Stubs in the ashtray speak of long hours waiting.
The still is broken as Merrick emerges from an adjacent room.
Sanger and Crowne look up, expectant. Merrick closes the door
with slow care. Then he faces them, a grim tenor in his voice-
MERRICK
Bad news.
102
EXT . PHOENIX - NIGHT
The whisper slices the night, running lights blinking. We pan to
frame it against a skyline of black towers. A glittering row of
domes and spires, somehow celestial, touching the sky. The city
bears no trace of its origins, once built over Indian ruins, now
rebuilt, subsumed by urban overhaul. It has become a metropolis.
69.
103
LINCOLN PULLS ESTER INTO THE DARKNESS - a narrow access, barely
lit, hard to see - a sudden dead-end - they SLAM INTO A BARRIER--
A CHAINLINK F E N C E - the links shuddering - Lincoln looks up and
sees it's scalable - claws into the links - STARTS CLIMBING-
Ester TRYING TO CLIMB - rattled by coughing - fighting to
breathe - her limbs shaking - her muscles failing - then--
- B O O M - A BLINDING ELECTRICAL DISCHARGE - SUDDENLY THE FENCE IS
ALIVE WITH ELECTRICITY - BURNING FINGERS JITTER ACROSS THE LINKS-
LINCOLN AT THE TOP OF THE FENCE - jolted by the sudden shock -
muscles in reflex - falling - landing the far side of the fence--
Ester STILL CLIMBING - the jolt instantly toppling her back -
landing the near side of the fence - more rattled than hurt --
B U R D O N RUNNING TOWARDS THEM - thunderbolt smoking from the shot-
LINCOLN ON THE FAR SIDE OF THE FENCE - recovering from the fall--
Ester ON THE NEAR SIDE OF THE FENCE - cowering, coughing -
B U R D O N JERKS HER UP BY THE HAIR - like a rapacious viking - he
looks through the fence at Lincoln - sniffing her, almost bestial-
BURDON
G o ahead. I'll look after her.
LINCOLN ' S EYES FLICKERING DARKLY - jaw clenching - the sense of
danger urging him to run - but Ester is in the giant's grips -
Ester CLAWING TO BREAK FREE - coughing, rasping - her fingers
snag on the giant's arm-brace - TUGGING WITH ALL HER STRENGTH--
B U R D O N YOWLING AT THE SUDDEN PAIN - lashing out - flinging Ester
into the fence - dropping the thunderbolt - CLUTCHING HIS ARM--
LINCOLN LEAPING ONTO THE FENCE - scrambling up the link - the
dark giant momentarily off-guard - HE VAULTS OVER THE TOP --
- T H U D - BURDON SPINS ROUND - takes the full brunt of Lincoln's
impact - overbalancing - THEY CRASH TO THE GROUND -
LINCOLN STRUGGLES UPRIGHT - winded, but forced to face the dark
giant - who is already on his feet, his mighty fist SWINGING OUT-
- T H U D - LINCOLN TAKES A PUNCH TO THE JAW - recoils, reciprocates
throwing a left hook - hitting hard but the giant barely flinches-
89.
-THUD-THUD- BURDON POUNDS INTO HIM - a storm of punches - his
quarry, ducking and blocking - now backed up against the fence--
Ester RETRIEVING THE THUNDERBOLT - trying to work the mechanism -
coughing - hands shaking - accidentally touching the trigger -
- B O O M - THE SHOT BLASTS INTO THE AIR - enough of a distraction
for Lincoln - he lands the giant with A BONE-JARRING LEFT HOOK-
B U R D O N KEELS OVER INTO THE WALL - cracking the back of his head -
his knees buckling - sliding down - just catching sight of--
LINCOLN AND ESTER SCRAMBLING UP OVER THE FENCE - and then the
quarry is lost from sight in A DOWNPOUR OF ELECTRICAL SPARKS.
134
EXT . BACKSTREET - NIGHT
S I R E N S WAILING IN THE DISTANCE. Lincoln and Ester race down the
sidewalk, along a construction hoarding. Ester slows, doubling
over, rasping. Lincoln looks at her, her l i p s , blue, her face,
pale. The sirens, getting louder. He sees a gap in the hoarding-
135
EXT . ENCANTO PARK - NIGHT
Lincoln and Ester emerge through the gap onto a derelict tract.
A once public park, now a construction site. Mounds and craters
of earth. Dim shapes of huge vehicles, like sleeping dragons.
Patches of parkland, as yet untouched. Bowed palms, dead grass,
a stagnant lagoon, a dull mirror for the ascendant moon. On its
shoreline is a dilapidated construct that was once a boathouse.
136
INT . BOATHOUSE - ENCANTO PARK - NIGHT
The refuge of shadow. The collapsed
roof allowing streams and
puddles of moonlight. Lincoln helps
Ester onto a rotted bench.
She slumps down, exhausted, Lincoln
watches her, helplessly.
She's fighting for breath, wheezing
and coughing in deep rasps.
ESTER
I can't... I can't breathe... my
throat... it's so... dry...
LINCOLN
I ' l l find you some water.
He looks around blindly. Some junk in the corner. He rummages,
finds a rusted metal box. Pries it open, empties the contents.
Gauzes, band-aids - evidently a first-aid box - then a bottle.
He opens it, sniffs. It smells pungent. Alcohol, not water.
Ester suddenly starts sobbing. Lincoln returns to her side-
LINCOLN
I t ' s going to be okay, Ester.
90.
ESTER
N o . . . no, it isn't...
LINCOLN
I ' l l find you some water, okay?
Ester looks up at him, wheezing, tears streaming from her eyes-
ESTER
An d then what, Lincoln?
LINCOLN
I ' l l find another way. Out of state.
ESTER
An d then what? What if they find us?
LINCOLN
The n we'll keep going.
ESTER
I can't... I can't run anymore...
Ester folds over, sobbing and coughing at the same time. Pitiful
to watch. Lincoln crouches, gaining her eyeline, very deliberate-
LINCOLN
We ' l l keep going till we get there.
Ester traps a sob, reading his eyes, something reviving in her-
ESTER
The Island... You mean, The Island?
Lincoln answers with a brief smile. If this will keep her going
then the truth is redundant. He eases her out of the moment-
LINCOLN
N o w I'm going to get some water. But I
want you to stay here. It'll be safer.
Ester wipes away her tears, sniffing. Her breaths, calming.
ESTER
Don't go yet. Stay with me, Lincoln.
Stay with me for a little while.
Lincoln looks puzzled by Ester's request. Even more puzzled as
she rests her head on his shoulder, nestling into his neck. He
feels her against him. The warmth spreading through him again.
His arm reaching, as if of its own accord, closing around her.
I t feels right somehow. And there he stays, holding her, looking
out across the dereliction. And the moon rises over Encanto P a r k .
91.
137
The holoform l o g o of The Metro PD glows over the threshold.
Diggs exits with a dark glower. The cutter is waiting kerbside.
138
INT . CUTTER - DRIVING - NIGHT
Diggs climbs in an Burdon steers out into traffic. The thrill
o f the chase is gone from them now. Both seem equally grim and
determined. Diggs taps the holocom. A holoframe resolves, snows
with static. Then Janeen's face appears, dishevelled, bitter-
JANEEN (ON HOLOCOM)
What the fuck do you want now?
DIGGS
(very calm, very cold)
Punch into the currency stream, close
the net on downtown and keep the search
active. The next time they use the card,
I want to be right on top of them...
O f f his icy tone, Janeen nods without retort. Diggs hits a key
and her face blinks out. And the cutter prowls into the night.
139
EXT . DOWNTOWN STREET - NIGHT
The winged pig flutters over the doors of "Hog Heaven". Another
franchise on a more downtrodden street. Lincoln emerges with a
bag of food and drink. He considers the blue card. The reservoir,
now close to the bottom, his resources almost exhausted. With a
look of foreboding, he pockets the card and turns the corner.
An d suddenly stops in his tracks. But it's not a vehicle that he
sees. Or a predator. His eyes are fixed on a holoframe billboard:
- - A football player in montage; pummeling into a defensive line;
running for a touchdown; gyrating in the endzone; spinning in an
NFL podium shot, super; "Nobody Stops The Juggernaut!"; a team
logo, super; "Come See The Phoenix Admirals! Rulers of the AFC!"
Lincoln recognizes the player's face but it's not possible. He
waits for the loop to restart. There it is again. The face of
Starkweather Two-Delta. Incredulous, he stops a pedestrian-
LINCOLN
The man, the man up there. Who is he?
PEDESTRIAN
What planet `you been living on?
That's the Juggernaut, brother.
LINCOLN
The juggernaut...
92.
PEDESTRIAN
Jamil "The Juggernaut" Starkweather -
highest rushing total in the league.
`Least till that injury blew out his
gut. Now the doctors are saying he'll
be back on his feet next season. Those
fuckers sure can work miracles, huh?
Lincoln doesn't respond. The pedestrian shrugs and heads on,
writing him off. Lincoln lingers, staring up at the billboard.
140
INT . CIN BOOTH - NIGHT
The flourish of music greets Lincoln as he enters. The cartoon
rattlesnake appears and smiles his clownish, fanged smile:
THE SNAKE
Hi there! I'm Tattletail! What e v e r you
want to know, wherever you want to go, I
got the answers! Let's look at the menu!
The set of text frames appears: "Residential Listings", "Business
Listings", "Transport Listings", "Hotel Listings".
THE SNAKE
N o w let's make a selection!
A heavy pause. Lincoln's voice comes with a slight tremor.
LINCOLN
Residential...
THE SNAKE
Please give me the name.
LINCOLN
Starkweather...
THE SNAKE
Okay! Let me find that listing for
you! I'll be with you in two shakes!
The snake rattles and coils. Then a headshot a p p e a r s with the
face of Jamil Starkweather , scaled across with a red line.
THE SNAKE
Starkweather , Jamil... I'm sorry! This
listing is blocked from the directory!
Lincoln stands, darkly intent on the face. Now irrefutably the
same face he saw in his life below. The snake shakes its rattle-
93.
THE SNAKE
You want me to find another listing?
Lincoln looks at the snake, flicking its tongue, coiling.
F A D E TO BLACK.
141
EXT . DOWNTOWN STREET - MORNING
A downtrodden neighborhood. The buildings look like remnants from
our own era. A scruffy man slouches up to a gated storefront. He
slots a key into a lock panel and the gate rolls up, squealing.
We widen to a vehicle parked kerbside. A familiar grey cutter.
142
INT . STORE - MORNING
L i g h t s flicker on to disclose a gunshop. The array of firearms
a s fathomless as their purpose. The scruffy gunshop o w n e r slouches
inside. Diggs and Burdon enter on his heels. He yawns at them-
G U N S H O P OWNER
We ain't open for another hour.
DIGGS
Y e a h , well we ain't in the market.
G U N S H O P OWNER
E v e r y o n e ' s in the market, pal. One end
of the barrel or the other...
DIGGS
We ' r e chasing up a currency record from
last night. These two ring a bell?
D i g g s displays two digital slides. The owner pauses, suspicious.
G U N S H O P OWNER
What are you? Cops? Lawyers?
D i g g s answers by jerking out the rainmaker. The twin barrels
aimed at his head, the gunshop o w n e r loses his cool a little-
G U N S H O P OWNER
H i m , I remember... Came in just before
closing... wanted a shooter but didn't
have no ID... settled for one of these.
He displays a HUNTING KNIFE, unsheathing it, showing the blade.
DIGGS
Did he give you a name?
G U N S H O P OWNER
No.
94.
DIGGS
Did he say where he was going?
G U N S H O P OWNER
No.
D i g g s cocks the hammer. The owner flinches. Then, off the knife-
G U N S H O P OWNER
The r e was one thing. Kinda w e i r d .
He wanted to know how to use it...
143
EXT . APARTMENT BUILDING - MORNING
An apartment building towers overhead, vaguely ominous. Lincoln
approaches the entrance with Ester. We now see he has a band-aid
covering his crosshatch. He takes Ester briefly aside, teasing
some tresses over hers. As she gently smooths down her hair,
Ester catches his eye. A look flickers between them. Then-
D O O R M A N (O.S.)
Fancy dress, was it, sir?
A DOORMAN is looking at them like they just rolled out of a club
he wouldn't be seen dead in. Off their flustered looks, he gives
an apologetic smile. Then opens the door and holds it for them.
Lincoln reaches for Ester's hand. Then stiffly leads her inside.
144
INT . CORRIDOR - AN UPPER FLOOR - DAY
The doors are set with small glowing orbs at peephole level. Like
eyeballs, watching, as Lincoln and Ester proceed up the corridor.
They stop at a door. Lincoln checks the number. Pauses heavily.
Then looks for some type of doorbell. As his eyes cross the orb,
it seems to blink. Then comes a sound of disengaging locks. Then
the door swings open. Lincoln flinches, taken by surprise. Then
frowns as he sees there is no one on the other side of the door.
145
INT . APARTMENT - DAY
Lincoln enters, wary, scanning around. A living room. Framed
pictures. A sofa, chairs. A coffee table, empty bottles,
cigarette packs, a full ashtray. A bureau, some paperwork.
Silence, stillness. No sign of life, no sense of danger. Lincoln
moves across to the bureau and starts leafing through the
papers. Ester ventures in through the door, curious-
ESTER
What are you looking for?
LINCOLN
I don't know. Something. Just wait
there and make sure nobody's coming.
95.
As he leafs the papers, Ester waits dutifully by the door. Her
eyes wander across the framed pictures. Then narrow onto a 3D
p h o t o g r a p h . A college boxing team photo, grinning cup winners.
ESTER
L o o k at this...
Lincoln returns to her. Ester points to the photo. A face in the
row, blurred but eerily familiar. Lincoln seems not to react.
Ester, curiosity piqued, scans the other pictures. She alights
on a framed certificate - "Thomas R. Lincoln, Attorney-at-Law".
A MAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
What the hell are you doing?
Lincoln turns to confront A MAN in a robe. Disheveled from sleep,
grey from a hangover... the man's face is unmistakably his own.
This is TOM LINCOLN, sponsor of Lincoln Six-Echo, his bleary
eyes now widening in disbelief as he recognizes his agnate-
TOM
Oh, Jesus...
Lincoln is better prepared for this encounter but still stunned
by the sight of his double in the flesh. Sponsor and agnate stand
frozen. The only movement is Ester, her eyes flicking between
the same men, fraught, confused. Lincoln breaks the silence-
LINCOLN
Who are you?
Lincoln steps closer, eyes piercing. Tom takes a step back.
TOM
The y said... I'd never have to see you.
LINCOLN
Who?
Lincoln takes another step closer. Tom takes another step back.
TOM
The people...
LINCOLN
What people?
Lincoln takes another step closer. Tom stiffens, gathers himself-
TOM
Look, if you don't get out of here
right now, I'm calling security...
96.
Lincoln examines him, assimilating. His double seems to be as
belligerent as he is. Reasoning now, threat response kicking in.
Lincoln draws the hunting knife. Unused to it, he points it like
a gun. But it's enough of a threat for Tom, who swallows dryly-
TOM
Why are you here? What do you want?
LINCOLN
I want to know...
Tom grimaces at the ambiguity. That face. His f a c e . If not for
the pounding headache this would be a bad dream. He lowers onto
the sofa. Finds a cigarette and lights up. A drag, mind kicking
in. The knife cautioning him. With a slow exhale, he confesses-
TOM
One of the partners at my firm... he
told me about it. Gave me a referral.
I thought he was joking at first. I
went out there, took the sales tour.
Even before that I knew it wasn't a
joke. There was this discretion agree-
ment. I never saw anything like it and
I've seen a lot. Ironclad... breathe a
word and they've got you by the balls.
I don't know... There's cancer in my
family. Maybe it was just to keep up.
All the partners were on the policy.
LINCOLN
The policy?
He looks at his agnate. Then realizes the level of ignorance.
TOM
Christ, you have no idea, do you?
LINCOLN
About what?
Tom drags his cigarette, fingers trembling. He shakes his head-
TOM
I can't fucking do this...
LINCOLN
What are you talking about?
Lincoln moves closer, pointing the knife. Tom flinches, then-
TOM
Insurance. You're an insurance policy.
97.
LINCOLN
What is that?
TOM
Health insurance... medical...
LINCOLN
What does that mean?
TOM
If I get sick... if part of me gets
sick... I take a healthy part from you.
LINCOLN
Why?
TOM
How do you expect me to answer that?
It's just how it works, that's all.
Tom looks at his agnate. The insistent stare. The knife, pointing
at him like a finger. His fear yields to a flicker of anger-
TOM
What do you want? A fucking apology?
LINCOLN
Why do I look like you?
TOM
Because you are me . . .
LINCOLN
I don't understand.
TOM
Because they made you from my cells...
LINCOLN
Made me?
TOM
( a flare of anger)
That's right. You were made. Cooked up
in a centrifuge like a fucking boiled
egg. Every thought running through your
head, every word coming out of your
mouth, all of it, manufactured, made...
Lincoln frowns, trying to assimilate. Too much to process.
LINCOLN
You . . . you're the one who made me?
98.
TOM
No.
LINCOLN
Who made me?
TOM
I signed a contract. I can show you.
He gestures to a mirror on the wall. Lincoln steps back but his
eyes are unremitting. Tom rises, cautious, crossing to the wall.
He opens the mirror to reveal a wall safe. His trembling fingers
tap the keypad and the safe hisses open. He draws out a contract
folder embossed with a crosshatch. Then offers it to his agnate-
TOM
It's all right there. Who, why...
Lincoln takes the contract folder and starts flipping the pages,
reading. A pendulous silence falls. Tom stands watching, smoking
nervously. Ester stands by the door, trying to take all this in.
TOM
Look you've got what you wanted. Now
why don't you just get out of here?
LINCOLN
(pause, looks at him)
There are men out there, looking for
us. I want you to make them stop.
TOM
I can't...
Lincoln sets down the contract and brings up the knife again.
TOM
I can't. Look, I'm a lawyer, I know how
it works. The contract, everything, it's
all laced with confidentiality clauses.
It means they don't want this to get
out. It means whatever I do, they're
not going to stop. You understand?
Lincoln pauses, assimilating. His double's expression indicates
that he's telling the truth. Maybe try a more practical request-
LINCOLN
Do you have transport?
TOM
Transport , yes... yes, parked
downstairs... Bay 53... Take it...
99.
LINCOLN
And then you'll call security?
Lincoln steps closer, pointing the knife. Tom tries to stay dead-
pan. The lawyer kicking in. Look them in the eye when you lie-
TOM
I'm not going to call security. I'm
not going to call anybody, okay?
Lincoln looks at his double, reason now yielding to anger. Deep,
roiling. Tom looks at his agnate, fear welling, deadpan cracking-
TOM
Look, maybe there's something... maybe
there's a way to cancel the contract...
Lincoln presses the tip of the blade to his double's cheek.
TOM
For Christ's sake! It's not my fault!
Lincoln inches the blade deeper into the trembling face, drawing
blood. The anger urging, hungry for more blood. Then suddenly-
ESTER
Lincoln ! No!
Lincoln looks at her, the anger interrupted, the knife still in
place. He pauses. Then returns to his double. The dreading eyes,
the trickle of blood down the face. His e y e s . His f a c e . A long,
foreboding moment. Then suddenly Lincoln lashes out. His fist
sends his double flying, falling in a flurry of contract pages.
Lincoln stands over him, looking down, like a dominant species.
His double is unmoving, unconscious. Lincoln abruptly spins away.
146
INT . ELEVATOR - DESCENDING
The light panel flashes. Lincoln stands grimly, head lowered,
trying to fathom the anger roiling within. Ester stares at him,
wanly. Both held in the dark tableau. And the elevator descends.
147
INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - DAY
The vehicle parked in bay 53 is a hybrid of sportscar a n d speed-
b o a t , a two-seater known as a "skiff". Lincoln and Ester climb
in. Lincoln reviews the drive console, the controls, all of it,
meaningless. His eyes cross an orb set in the steering wheel.
The orb seems to blink and suddenly the drive console lights up.
Lincoln reviews it. A screen in front of him is flashing:
"PILOTING: MANUAL/AUTO?". He assimilates. Then ventures-
100.
LINCOLN
Auto...
The interface processes, then asks: "DESTINATION: NAME/ADDRESS?"
LINCOLN
O u t of state... West...
The interface processes, then reports "UNDOCKING". Lincoln and
Ester jolt as the skiff shunts forward. Lode-poles pulsing ahead
of them, the skiff moves out, as if pulled by a phantom tugboat.
148
EXT . STREET - DAY
The skiff buckets off the ramp into a street inlet. Then stops
rocking a little. The interface reports: "ESTABLISHING UPLINK".
On another screen, a road map appears. A red dot plants at their
point of origin then bleeds into a red line, plotting a course.
The autopilot scans for traffic, then nudges forward on the
throttle. The resistors drone, the steering wheel turns and the
skiff noses onto the street. Finding its lane, it drops to
cruise speed. Lincoln studies the interplay of steering wheel,
throttle and brake. Then glances at Ester. She's plunged in
thought, staring off. She turns to him with a haggard frown-
ESTER
The man back there... who looked like
you... does it mean I have someone too?
Lincoln looks at her blankly, unknowing. Ester stares off again,
her brow knotting with unanswered questions. But Lincoln's gaze
lingers. Her pale skin, her limpid eyes, her hair fluttering in
the breeze. It's the first time he's really seen Ester's beauty.
149
EXT . PHOENIX SKYLINE - DAY
The domes and spires glint in the sunlight. We isolate a glass
steeple. A crosshatch insignia. A legend "Sanger Industries".
150
INT . CROWNE'S OFFICE - SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER - DAY
A corner office with a panoramic view of the city. Crowne sits
at a console desk, reviewing some data on a holoframe screen. A
knock on the door and HER SECRETARY enters, looking unsettled-
SECRETARY
I just thought I should warn you. I
have a sponsor holding. His name's
Thomas Lincoln. He sounded... angry.
101.
151
The skiff plunges into the shadow of an underpass. The interface
flashes: "UPLINK INTERRUPT... AUTOPILOT DISENGAGING". Lincoln
sits up, confused. The skiff is now slowing, drifting as if cut
loose. He studies the controls again. Positions one hand on the
steering wheel, the other on the throttle. Then he nudges it.
The skiff lurches, veering out of its lane. Another vehicle zips
narrowly past, rocking them with its invisible backwash. Ester
looks at Lincoln, suddenly alarmed. Lincoln tries again, firm on
the wheel, gentle on the throttle. And the skiff eases forward.
152
EXT . MOTEL - DOWNTOWN PHOENIX - LATE AFTERNOON
D i s m a l . The kind of place that precedes a life on the street. We
push in on a window, cracked glass, the drapes closed within.
153
INT . MOTEL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
G l o o m y , musty. A "holovision" plays some type of NFL recap. But
Scheer is not watching it. He is lying on the bed, staring at
the ceiling, motionless. Off a beeping sound, he stirs. He taps
a holocom on the nightstand. A holoframe appears, resolving:
Merrick (ON HOLOCOM)
K a r l , there's been a complication.
154
EXT . INTERSTATE - SUNSET
The sunset melts gold across the horizon as the skiff cruises
westward. Eight lanes of lodeway rake through the salt flats.
Lincoln is driving more confidently now. Ester is huddled asleep
beside him. Suddenly the skiff starts to slow again. Lincoln
reviews the controls. Throttle, forward, foot, off the brake.
The interface flashes: "REMOTE LOCKDOWN E N G A G I N G " . The skiff is
steering itself onto the hard shoulder. It now pulls to a dead
halt. Ester is woken by the sudden inertia. She opens her eyes
and looks around. They've stopped in the middle of nowhere.
155
EXT . THE SALT FLATS - SUNSET
The sun sinks in a slow pink haze. Lincoln and Ester walk across
the salt flats. Visible in the distance is a walled settlement.
156
EXT . THE HERITAGE PARK - SUNSET
An adobe wall culminates at an arched wooden gateway. Lincoln
and Ester approach. They haven't walked far but Ester is already
short of breath. As they near the gateway a holoserve appears,
like a sentry - Native American, buckskins, feathered headdress
and facepaint. His voice seems as old as the wind-
102.
THE INDIAN HOLOGRAM
Welcome to Salt River Heritage Park,
home to the Hohokam Nation for over two
thousand years. The park is now closed.
Please come back during opening hours,
9am t o 5pm, Monday through Saturday...
Ester steps closer. With the sun hazing through, the holoserve
s e e m s angelic or ghostly. She's examining his striped facepaint-
ESTER
He has marks on his face like us.
She turns to Lincoln with a flowering smile. Then rushes up to
the gateway, suddenly galvanized, squeezing through a gap.
157
EXT . THE HERITAGE PARK - SUNSET
A ring of Native American pueblos. Pithouses a n d coursed adobes,
recreations and preserved ruins. Ester rushes around the ring,
looking into the pueblos as if expecting to find them inhabited.
She ducks into one of the pithouses. Lincoln follows her inside.
158
INT . PITHOUSE - SUNSET
The mud walls show a skeleton of saguaro ribs, cholla branches.
It's cosy in here, dim. The living area, recreated with mats and
pottery. Lincoln finds Ester looking around, between excitement
and confusion. She turns to him, her voice wavering, wheezing-
ESTER
Is this... is this place The Island?
Lincoln answers with a softly negating look. Ester's face slowly
falls, the energy draining from her eyes. She lowers onto one of
the mats and lies down, huddling. She looks up to him, wheezing-
ESTER
I'm tired. Let me rest for a while.
159
EXT . PITHOUSE - NIGHT
Silence prevails but for the faint rattle of Ester's breathing.
Lincoln sits on low stool, in sentinel over her as she sleeps.
In his eyes, we see the weight of foreboding. He doesn't know
what they'll do when she wakes. Of a moaning sound he looks at
Ester. Then realizes it isn't coming from her. The sound is far
off, a rhythmic moaning. Now discernible as the chant of voices.
160
EXT . THE PLATFORM MOUND - NIGHT
A blazing fire. Figures in silhouette, moving around, chanting.
103.
The platform mound is situated just beyond the heritage park. An
ancient ceremonial site, stepped in ruins, dusted with caliche.
Pima and Maricopa, descendants of the Hohokam, are congregated
for a solstice ceremony. Off to the side, a group of horses are
tethered, shuffling, snorting. Lincoln approaches, cautiously,
but somehow like a moth to the flame. He stops at a distance,
watching. The curiosity of congruent sound and movement.
VOICE (O.S.)
You look a little lost, my friend.
Lincoln turns to a figure emerging from the night. A tall man -
swarthy skin, mist-colored eyes. His tribal name is GREY DOVE-
GREY DOVE (cont'd)
Or did you come here for a reason?
Lincoln examines the tall man. The face seems as deep and gentle
as the voice. His sense of danger, unstirring, he concedes-
LINCOLN
I was looking for water.
GREY DOVE
Not the best place to look.
LINCOLN
My transport... it stopped working.
GREY DOVE
I see. And where were you going?
LINCOLN
Out of state...
Lincoln sighs, the destination seeming very far away. Grey Dove
considers him. This bruised, weary outsider is somehow childlike.
161
EXT . THE CEREMONY - LATER
The fire blazes across the face of a shaman. Old, gnarled, and
dry as the salt flats. With a sacred mutter, he slips a peyote
button onto his tongue. Then flings back his head, casting his
eyes to the stars. When he lowers his head again, we see his
pupils dilating. He rises, chanting, moving in ceremonial steps
around the fire. Tribespeople s i t in a ring, joining the chant.
Beyond the ring, others are dining at a roasting pit. Roast
rabbit. Cornflour bread. The food is as it might been two
thousand years ago. Only the sight of plastic water gallons
breaks the illusion. Lincoln stands apart with Grey Dove, eating
ravenously, gulping from a water gallon. He looks around-
104.
LINCOLN
What is this place?
GREY DOVE
It is a sacred place. My people come
here to commune with their spirits.
Lincoln looks at him, puzzled. Grey Dove smiles tolerantly.
GREY DOVE
Not easy to understand perhaps. For us,
the spirit is like the shadow on the
rock. Sometimes close, sometimes far
away, sometimes the sky clouds and the
shadow fades. We come here to ask our
spirits to return to us. The man...
(gestures to the shaman)
He speaks to The Grandfather from whom
all spirits are born. The Great Spirit
who binds every living thing. He has no
name. But he is everywhere. In the sun
and the moon, the wind and the rain...
The shaman's chanting grows louder, more insistent. His circuit
around the fire becoming faster, building in religious fervor.
GREY DOVE
Now he asks for the gift of vision that
he may see through to the spirit shape
of things. To find the spirits of the
lost. To bring them into the light...
The shaman's chanting suddenly stops. He is looking directly at
Lincoln, pointing. His face, contorting with what might be anger
or fear. He starts babbling in dialect, ardently. Lincoln frowns
in confusion. Grey Dove quietly draws him away from the mound.
162
INT . PITHOUSE - NIGHT - LATER
Ester stirs from slumber. On the ground beside her, she finds a
bowl of food and a water gallon. Now through the gloom, she sees
Lincoln, sitting on the stool like he never left, keeping vigil.
Something seems different about him as he turns, registering her-
LINCOLN
A r e you alright?
ESTER
I feel better after I sleep.
Lincoln nods absently and stares off out of the doorway. Ester
moves closer, sensing something. He speaks as if from far away-
105.
LINCOLN
The man out there... he said
everything has a spirit... every
living thing... but not...
His voice cuts off. Ester looks at him, recognizing his pain.
She doesn't understand what it is or what caused it. It's pain
and it evokes a response in her. A feeling, taking her over. Her
hand reaches out and strokes his hair. Lincoln looks up at her,
questioning. With supreme knowing, Ester leans down and kisses
him. At the touch of her lips, Lincoln pauses. The first kiss
for both of them but Ester takes it in her stride. The calm
ballet of nature. Fluidly peeling off her shirt, breasts
steeping with moonlight. Lincoln rising to face her, feeling her
proximity, her radiant heat. His fingers touching her breasts.
Ester trembling, her lips once more finding his. Lincoln closing
his eyes, the rush of sensation, overwhelming. He yields to it,
returning the kiss, with hunger, with passion... with spirit.
163
EXT . THE INTERSTATE - DAWN
The sun rises in the east, depicting the traffic in silhouette.
A vehicle arcs from the fast lane onto the hard shoulder where
the skiff sits abandoned. The grey cutter pulls to a halt.
164
EXT . HARD SHOULDER - DAWN
D i g g s and Burdon move up on the skiff, cover positions, weapons
levelled. Burdon spins in to the driver side, snapping aim with
the thunderbolt. But the skiff is empty. The only sign of life
is the interface, flashing red: "REMOTE LOCATOR TRANSMITTING".
B u r d o n exchanges a look with Diggs. No dice. Diggs reaches in his
pocket and pulls out what looks like an electronic telescope. He
puts it to his eye and pans the salt flats. Burdon crouches at
the roadside, looking for tracks. Then Diggs fixes on something-
DIGGS
I got thermals.
165
EXT . PLATFORM MOUND - SUNRISE
The fire is now reduced to a heap of embers. The tribespeople
a r e asleep around the mound, wrapped in ethnic blankets. Diggs
and Burdon move up stealthily, weapons at the ready. The horses
bristle and snort, betraying their approach. The tribespeople,
stirred by the noise, awake. Diggs and Burdon swing aim around
the ring as faces rise and stare at them. None of the faces have
white skin. Diggs lowers his weapon and addresses the gathering-
DIGGS
I'm looking for two bond runners. They
ditched near here last night.
106.
DIGGS (cont'd)
One man, one woman. Tattoos on the
forehead...
(nothing, just silent stares)
Anyone's seen them, I got fifty green.
(still nothing, aggravated)
What the fuck are you? Deaf and dumb?
The tribal faces just keep staring. Diggs scowls. Then suddenly
swings aim with the rainmaker and fires. -BOOM- hitting one of
the horses in the haunch. It rears up, whinnying, setting off
the rest of the horses. Diggs turns back to the gathering-
DIGGS
Somebody start talking.
He scans around the ring. Then fixes on one of the women. She
lifts a trembling finger to a man nearby. Grey Dove stiffens.
166
EXT . SALT MOUNTAINS - SUNRISE
The sunrise depicts two silhouettes, moving across the ridge.
Lincoln and Ester clamber over the calcified rocks. Ester now
stops to catch her breath. She is wheezing again, fighting for
air. As Lincoln looks on with concern, she musters a brave smile-
ESTER
I can make it.
167
EXT . SALT CANYON - EARLY MORNING
A freight barge whooshes through the canyon, trailing a chain of
low, arched containers, capacious in width rather than height.
The conveyance is similar to a lodeway but wider, deeper, known
as a "lode-canal". At each end of the canyon, it intersects with
other lode-canals, converging to use the same passage, a system
of signals and lockgates controlling the flow of freight traffic.
High above, on the south rim of the canyon, we find Lincoln and
Ester. Ester is no longer wheezing but rasping. She looks down at
the passing vessel, daunted. Lincoln offers her small comfort-
LINCOLN
Don't worry. The one we want goes the
other way. He said it goes slower.
They exchange a smile. The chain of containers tailing off, the
barge leaving the canyon with a blast of its resonant claxon.
168
EXT . THE SOUTH FACE - MORNING
Lincoln and Ester descend the rocky slope toward the lode-canal.
Ester stops, having to catch her breath every few steps. Lincoln
tries to hide his concern, looking away towards the sunrise. The
westbound vessel will be coming soon.
107.
They just need to get out of state... Now he frowns, sensing
something. Faint but growing. His jaw clenches. His face
tightens. His pupils start to dilate.
169
EXT . THE NORTH RIDGE - MORNING
The north ridge is evidently threaded by a lodeway as we see the
grey cutter pulling up. Diggs and Burdon get out and look down
into the canyon. Diggs pulls out his scope and starts panning.
Burdon peels off his jacket. It's early but it's already getting
hot. Diggs now pauses, handing him the scope for his opinion-
DIGGS
Up there in the rocks. Three o'clock.
I'm not sure... it could be ambient.
170
EXT . THE SOUTH FACE - MORNING
Lincoln and Ester hide in the shadow of a rock. Ester is muffling
her breaths as best she can. Lincoln now hazards a look over the
top. Two figures are climbing down the far side of the canyon,
now pointing in their direction. He ducks back, assimilating.
Hiding, no longer an option. Nor running, at least for Ester.
His face sets in a grimace of conviction. His eyes glow darkly.
171
EXT . THE NORTH FACE - MORNING
Diggs and Burdon reach the foot of the rocks. Neither speaks,
communicating in hand-signals. Diggs slips into the lode-canal.
Burdon covers, sweeping the thunderbolt across the south face.
Diggs emerges from the far side of the lode-canal. He stays low,
moving up into the rocks. Then, from above, a rock dislodges,
rattling down. Diggs reacts instantly, targeting, opening fire-
- B O O M - B O O M - The shots from the rainmaker swathe across the rock.
The thunderbolt now adding to the barrage, Burdon firing from
the far side - SHOTS, BOLTS, KICKING UP A STORM OF DUST --
SUDDENLY HOLDING FIRE, waiting for the dust to clear, reloading.
No sign of movement. Just a slide of rubble. Fading echoes.
D I G G S STEALS ONWARDS UP THE ROCKS - into the fog of dust - the
sunlight and shadow playing tricks on his eyes - then suddenly-
LINCOLN BURSTS OUT OF THE DUST - from the left - tackling the
pale man - both of them toppling - tumbling down the slope --
THUDDING TO A HALT at the lip of the lode-canal - the rainmaker
lost in the fall - the impact throwing up a billow of dust --
THE DUSTCLOUD - Diggs and Lincoln struggling, clawing, punching -
Lincoln, with surprise on his side, gaining with the upper hand--
108.
DIGGS' CLAWING FINGERS discover Lincoln's knife - tugging it from
his jacket - Lincoln grabbing his wrist, fighting for control -
THE KNIFE MOVING BETWEEN THEM - Diggs with better leverage - the
blade inching towards Lincoln's face - pressing into his cheek--
LINCOLN'S EYES - welling black, almost inhuman - the sense of
danger screaming in his ears - he grabs the pale man's throat -
DIGGS' EYES - bulging as he strains to push the knife home -
oxygen draining - conscious ebbing - he slumps back -
LINCOLN REGAINS THE KNIFE - the pale man seems to be out cold -
but he's not sure - he pauses holding the blade over him, then--
- B O O M - THE KNIFE FLIES FROM HIS GRIP IN A BURST OF DISCHARGE -
BURDON SNAPS AIM FOR ANOTHER SHOT - beading - his target moving
now - dropping out of the firing line - into the lode-canal--
BURDON INCHES TOWARD THE EDGE - thunderbolt angling downward -
into the trench - then suddenly he's GRABBED BY THE ANKLES -
LINCOLN STRAINING to overbalance the giant - feet up against the
wall - like trying to topple a tree - finally winning some give-
BURDON TOPPLES INTO THE TRENCH - his ankles clamped by his
quarry - both men meeting the concrete with a bone-shaking-
- THUD - LINCOLN IS CRUSHED BENEATH THE MASSIVE WEIGHT - the giant
already recovering from the fall - now dragging him upright--
- THUD - BURDON THROWS A PUNCH - mightily - hurling his quarry
across the trench - moving in quickly, following up with a kick--
- THUD - LINCOLN CRUMPLES as the boot smacks into him - then
another kick - then another - the world starts blurring --
BURDON TURNS AWAY - his quarry disabled for now - he recovers
his thunderbolt - turns back to administer the coup de grace--
LINCOLN LOOKS UP - the giant looming - the muzzle of his weapon
thrumming with energy - the rivets on his denims start rattling--
BURDON SPINS ROUND - the thunderbolt suddenly ripped from his
grasp - there, in the distance - AN EASTBOUND BARGE IS COMING -
LINCOLN SCRAMBLES UP THE WALL OF THE TRENCH - muscles straining,
feet slipping on the concrete - escaping the imminent vessel --
109.
DIGGS COMING TO - now seeing his quarry a short distance away -
emerging from the lode-canal - he looks around for a weapon, then-
BURDON (O.S.)
Diggs! Get me outta here!
BURDON STRUGGLING TO CLIMB OUT OF THE TRENCH - with one arm,
it's almost impossible - fighting against his own weight--
DIGGS REACHING THE EDGE - seeing the eastbound barge coming -
grabbing his partner's outreached hand - pulling him upward -
BURDON'S PANIC - his other arm flinging away - HIS METAL BRACE
SNARED BY THE LODE-STREAM - the force shuddering his entire body-
DIGGS PULLING WITH ALL HIS MIGHT - feet slipping - locked in a
tug of war with the lodestream - THE BARGE IS CLOSING FAST--
BURDON'S HORROR - now suspended between the two forces - feet
kicking - THE BARGE IS ALMOST UPON HIM - he screams agonized--
BURDON
Help me! HELP MEEEEE!
THE SCREAM IS INSTANTLY LOST in the whoosh of the barge. Diggs,
stunned, just looks at his hands, empty, spattered with blood.
DIGGS
Burdie...?
THE SHADOW OF THE ROCK - Lincoln rejoins Ester - casting a look
back - the eastbound barge now plummeting into the distance--
D I G G S STOOPING AT THE EDGE OF THE TRENCH - looking down - all
that remains of his partner is a smear of blood at the concrete--
LINCOLN AND ESTER REACHING THE FOOT OF THE ROCKS - seeing THE
WESTBOUND BARGE against the sunrise - snaking into the passage--
DIGGS PULLING UPRIGHT - spotting his quarry - fire in his eyes -
drawing out a boot-knife - slipping it between his teeth--
THE WESTBOUND BARGE pulling through the canyon - lode-poles
pulsing ahead of it - polarity thrumming in opposing flow--
LINCOLN AND ESTER start running as the barge comes towards them -
Lincoln pulling Ester along - struggling to match the pace--
A SOUND LIKE A BEATING TYMPANY COMING TOWARDS THEM - they look
round to see - A SHADOW RUNNING ALONG THE TOP OF THE BARGE--
D I G G S FLINGING HIMSELF OFF THE BARGE - the blade in his teeth -
arms spread - for an instant, like a vulture against the sun--
110.
LINCOLN IS SUDDENLY CRUSHED by the weight of his landing - ESTER
IS HURLED SIDEWAYS - into a ditch - lost in a cloud of dust--
D I G G S PULLING HIMSELF UP, astride of Lincoln - snatching the
knife from his clenched teeth - the sound, like a whetstone--
LINCOLN SPITTING DIRT - suddenly grabbed by the scalp and tugged
sideways - twisted partways o n t o his back, forced to look up at--
A BLACK SPOT AGAINST THE SUN - Diggs' face set in a murderous
sneer - he wants to see this fucker's e y e s - the torment--
LINCOLN DAZZLED BY THE SUNLIGHT - but suddenly knowing the face
of death - now catching the brief glint of the knife as --
D I G G S PLUNGES THE BLADE DOWN - slicing into his quarry's hand as
he throws it up in defense - his quarry YOWLING WITH PAIN--
LINCOLN FEELING THE STAB - his deepest instinct suddenly awoken -
every impulse, every fiber brought into alignment - survival--
D I G G S IS HURLED INTO THE AIR as Lincoln surges upward - he
tumbles backward into the dust - losing hold of the boot-knife--
LINCOLN PUSHES HIMSELF UPRIGHT - only makes it half-way -
scrambling towards the pale man - all fours, like an animal--
D I G G S CLAWING AROUND IN THE DUST - fingers finding metal - the
boot-knife - he brings it up - slashing at his imminent quarry--
LINCOLN RECOILING - the blade nicking his face - sudden rage -
grabbing the pale man by the arm - swinging him round into--
- B O O M - THE MOVING WALL OF FREIGHT CONTAINERS - as the westbound
barge passes - Diggs bounces off - stumbling to keep balance--
LINCOLN ON THE RETREAT - the pale man coming at him with the
knife - another nick - seeing a gap now, shoving him backwards--
- B O O M - THE MOVING WALL RESOUNDS - Diggs howls - snagged by a
bolt - hurt, his fury becomes incandescent - he strikes madly--
LINCOLN STUMBLING BACK - the pale man coming at him - the blade
flashing to and fro - frenzied - like a threshing machine--
F O R C I N G HIM UP AGAINST THE ROCKS - the knife almost upon him -
he grits his teeth and lunges forward - charging like a bull --
DIGGS CAREENS BACKWARD, still swiping the blade - digging into
his quarry - headlong towards the moving wall - hitting with--
- W H U M P - no resonant boom - no bouncing back - Diggs has hit a
gap between the containers and HIS HEAD HAS BEEN LOPPED OFF -
111.
LINCOLN STANDS HORRIFIED - as the headless body is spun by the
moving wall - dropping into the trench as the barge tails off-
The westbound barge gains speed, leaving the canyon. But there
is Ester, running after it, vainly, coughing and sputtering.
LINCOLN
Ester! Stop! It's no use!
ESTER
We have to... get to... The Island...
LINCOLN
It's going too fast!
ESTER
We have to... get to...
Ester staggers a few more steps, then collapses to her knees,
rasping for breath. As Lincoln reaches her, she slumps back into
his arms. Her head lolling, eyes rolled back to white, a drool
of blood spilling from her lips. Then the blast of a claxon c u t s
the air as the westbound barge disappears into the distance.
F A D E TO BLACK.
172
EXT . SEDONA - LATE AFTERNOON
A ranch home in the middle of nowhere. Long shadows.
173
INT . STUDIO - RANCH HOME - LATE AFTERNOON
Late golden sunlight through a mist of sawdust. Abstract wood
sculptures are visible. Juniper wood, carved along the bias of
the grain, polished to accentuate the curves of natural growth.
AN OLDER WOMAN runs a sander over a work in progress - 60's, in
coveralls, gray her tied back, her face shielded by goggles and
a bandana. She pauses to review her work, shutting down the
sander, slipping off her goggles and bandana. Her face is eerily
familiar. Her name is KATHERINE. She now moves to the window,
catching sight of something outside. Curiously, she watches a
vehicle coming down the long driveway. A dusty, grey cutter.
174
EXT . FRONT PORCH - RANCH HOME - LATE AFTERNOON
Katherine opens the front door. The cutter is now docked in the
port and a stranger is staggering towards her. In his arms, is
an unconscious woman. Now Katherine can see the face - younger,
but unmistakable even so. Her voice comes in a chilled whisper-
KATHERINE
O h , God... Oh, my God...
112.
175
A whisper cuts across the glistening skyline towards The Sanger
Industries Tower. It circles in to land on a rooftop helipad.
176
INT . CROWNE'S OFFICE - SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER
Silence . Crowne sits at her desk. Merrick sits across from her.
Waiting. The air stirs as the secretary ushers Dr. Sanger into
the office. No greetings are exchanged. Sanger just lowers into
a chair, a little unsettled to find Merrick has preceded him.
CROWNE
I take it you've heard the news.
DR. SANGER
The bond agents. Yes. Unfortunate.
CROWNE
Unfortunate?
(pauses, lights a cigarette)
We're way past unfortunate, Henry.
DR. SANGER
I thought we'd covered ourselves.
CROWNE
The police won't connect the bond
agents to us. But that's not the
problem. It's the sponsor.
DR. SANGER
What are you talking about?
MERRICK
The male agnate tracked him down.
CROWNE
His name's Thomas Lincoln. It seems
they had a genetic reunion. Not a
h a p p y one. It was all I could do to
stop him going to the authorities.
DR. SANGER
I still don't see the problem.
CROWNE
He may not want a police involvement
but he's already threatened to file
suit. And he's one of the biggest
litigation attorneys in the city.
113.
DR. SANGER
That's why we have you, Ellen.
CROWNE
That's why I asked Bernard to come out
here. To find out how it happened.
MERRICK
I told her, Henry. About synesthesia.
S a n g e r casts a betrayed look at Merrick. Then returns to Crowne-
DR. SANGER
I t was a marginal problem. And it was
under control - according to Bernard.
CROWNE
That's not the point. Whether or not
it's a factor in this instance, it
puts us in breach of the clone laws.
DR. SANGER
I t doesn't even touch their genetics.
CROWNE
I'm talking about self-awareness. The
virtual humanity statutes require us
t o give them consciousness to the
l e v e l of functionality. But not beyond.
This gives Sanger pause. Crowne drags her cigarette acutely.
CROWNE
L e g a l l y , we are naked on every level.
Federal legislature, state licensing,
sponsorship contract... But even if we
did manage to weather the legal storm,
we'd never survive the public scrutiny.
S a n g e r absorbs this, calmly shaking a pill from his pill bottle.
DR. SANGER
I've spent my entire career facing down
naysayers, Ellen. Don't think for a
second I'm afraid of facing them now.
CROWNE
You remember cryogenics? At the outset,
people dismissed it as a rich man's
folly. Eccentric millionaires freezing
their brains, hoping to wake up in a new
body.
114.
CROWNE (cont'd)
E v e n when cloning showed signs of
m a k i n g it feasible, it wasn't moral
a f f r o n t that caused the backlash. It
w a s the scope. The scope, Henry. When
t h e size of the customer base was
e x p o s e d , it screamed inequality - one
m e d i c i n e for the rich and one for the
p o o r . The pressure for accessible cryo-
genics a s good as buried the industry.
( a pause for emphasis)
O u r graves are being dug as we speak,
g e n t l e m e n . Every passing second, they
g e t deeper. If we're going to survive,
w e have to act swiftly and decisively.
DR. SANGER
A l r i g h t . What do you suggest?
S a n g e r dry swallows the pill. Ellen opens a contract folder.
CROWNE
O u r security chief - I've been looking
at his file. Ex-marine, served in South
China - do we think he still has it in
him?
DR. SANGER
( r e a l i z i n g , suddenly harsh)
A r e you insane?
The i r eyes deadlock. Crowne gives Merrick a sideways glance.
CROWNE
` You ever wondered why Henry takes
those pills, Bernard? Why he doesn't
avail himself of his own technology?
DR. SANGER
An agnate could give me a new heart
but to get it to function mentally...
CROWNE
B u l l s h i t , Henry. Bullshit. You don't
want to deal with reality. Only with
concept. I may not have been there at
the start but I heard the stories. You
wanted in on every aspect of
construction, from environmental
design right down to the classical
playlists. I t wasn't enough just to
make it work, was it? No, you wanted
your own little utopia.
115.
CROWNE (cont'd)
Swanning a r o u n d in your mountain
r e t r e a t like some self-appointed
d e i t y . But when it comes to getting
y o u r hands dirty...
DR. SANGER
A r e you quite finished?
CROWNE
E v e n God has blood on his hands, Henry.
Are you going to watch it all go up in
flames or are you going to deal with it?
S a n g e r crosses to the window, looking down onto the city.
DR. SANGER
You see that street down there...?
Running east from the stadium. My
father used to take me to church on
that street. An old Spanish church.
CROWNE
What's your point?
DR. SANGER
I didn't know they'd torn it down.
177
INT . GUEST BEDROOM - KATHERINE'S HOUSE - EVENING
A floral bedroom. Ester lies in bed, wheezing, semi-conscious.
Katherine slips a pill between her lips and tips in some water.
Lincoln stands watching. Katherine ushers him out of the room.
178
INT . KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
The kitchen is arrayed with modern technology but softened with
paintings and craftwork. A r t marginally overwhelming science.
Katherine starts making some herb tea in the traditional manner.
LINCOLN
What did you give her?
KATHERINE
J u s t something to help her sleep. I
think she has a bronchial infection.
But I'm not sure I should give her an
antibiotic in case it effects the baby.
LINCOLN
S o you know about the baby...
Katherine pauses, reality sinking its claws. She looks at him-
116.
KATHERINE
Is n ' t that why you came here?
LINCOLN
I found your name in the listings. I
wasn't sure. You don't look like her.
KATHERINE
The y have a plan... For women like me.
LINCOLN
S o you're the one who takes her baby.
Katherine winces at him. It's uttered so matter-of-factly. She
pauses, hanging her head, searching within herself.
KATHERINE
You know when you're young? How you
run around thinking you're immortal?
Lincoln ' s look says he has no idea. She seems not to notice.
KATHERINE
The r e was a lodeway accident. I was...
damaged. After that, I thought no man
would ever want me. I was wrong. His
name was John. He said he married me
for my eyes. Ocean eyes, he called
them. He always loved the ocean. Up
there on the wall, that's John's boat.
O f f her gesture, Lincoln glances at the wall. A watercolor of a
yacht. Meaningless to him but Katherine gazes it at, fondly-
KATHERINE
But I think there was always an unspoken
regret between us. When we heard about
the technology, it was like... forgive-
n e s s , like a second chance. A child of
our own, part of both of us. Sailing
trips, fishing trips, so many plans...
( a flat beat)
J o h n got cancer a year ago. He died.
He r eyes mist, distant and bittersweet, talking to herself now.
KATHERINE
I r o n i c . That the same technology could
have saved his life. And now the baby
is the only part of him I have left.
And the boat. I still have the boat.
Lincoln looks discomfited. There's more to this than he thought.
117.
179
E s t a b l i s h i n g . A clean facade of white steel and glass. A hatch-
b a c k vehicle known as a "corsair" pulls down the parking ramp.
185
INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - NEW GAZA HOSPITAL - NIGHT
The corsair pulls up at the ER entrance, Lincoln at the wheel.
Katherine gets out of the passenger side. A doctor is waiting -
50's, caring face. His name is DR. ABRAMS. He looks curiously at
the man at the wheel. Then greets Katherine with a hug -
D R . ABRAMS
Katherine . . . It's good to see you. I
haven't seen you since John's funeral.
KATHERINE
We l l I've been keeping busy. Trying
to. Thanks for coming down to meet me.
D R . ABRAMS
Your call was a little cryptic. What
is it exactly that's wrong with you?
KATHERINE
I t ' s not me... Not exactly.
She opens the rear door of the corsair. Ester is lying on the
back seat. Dr. Abrams frowns as he notices the resemblance.
186
EXT . THE RANCH HOUSE - SEDONA - NIGHT
The straker p u l l s up into the port.
187
INT . THE STUDIO / MAIN HOUSE - SEDONA - NIGHT
The shadow of Scheer moving outside the windows, looking for a
point of entry. He inspects the studio door for alarms. Then
elbows the glass. Reaching inside, turning the lock. He enters
the studio, glancing at the sculptures. Moving through the home.
S i l e n t l y , systematically, checking the rooms. He reaches the
guest bedroom, looks around. Something catches his eye. Spots of
blood of the linens. Eyes honing, he moves on into the kitchen.
He discovers a holocom keypad on the counter. Taps some keys.
The holoframe flashes "REDIALLING". The holoframe snows with
static. Then a receptionist's face appears-
R E C E P T I O N I S T (ON HOLOCOM)
N e w Gaza Hospital, how may I help you?
122.
188
P e a c e . Sunlight. A bell tolling in the background. We make out
Katherine, dressed in black, standing at a grave. The headstone
reads simply: "Here Lies Ester & Her Unborn Son - May They Rest
In Peace". There are no dates. Katherine lays down some flowers
then looks across at Dr. Abrams. As he escorts her away, we see
Crowne crossing towards them. She introduces herself delicately-
CROWNE
M r s . Ester? My name is Ellen Crowne.
203
INT . CEO'S OFFICE - THE SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER - DAY
A celestial penthouse office. Katherine enters with Crowne.
Merrick and Dr. Sanger rise to greet her. Strained solemnity.
DR. SANGER
M y name is Henry Sanger. I'd like to
offer my deepest condolences.
His insincerity is transparent. Katherine just nods stiffly.
DR. SANGER
This is Bernard Merrick our facility
director. He knew Ester personally.
MERRICK
An d it's a terrible loss.
M o r e insincerity. Katherine nods again. Then settles in a chair.
Crowne allows a respectful pause. Then begins with due delicacy-
CROWNE
L e g a l issues must seem trivial at this
time. But the sponsorship agreement has
certain conditions relating to confident-
i a l i t y . D e s p i t e this tragic t u r n of
events, those conditions remain binding.
We want to be sure you understand that.
KATHERINE
I see.
CROWNE
T h a t said, The Institute is likewise
bound by the terms of sponsorship and
while we reserve every right...
KATHERINE
You can stop there. I know why I'm
here. You wanted to know if I'm going
to sue you for breach of contract.
130.
DR. SANGER
N o t h i n g so devious, Mrs. Ester. We
simply wanted to find some way to
heal the wounds from this incident.
KATHERINE
I don't want restitution, Dr. Sanger.
The reason I agreed to this meeting
was to have the chance to talk to you.
DR. SANGER
O f course. Please...
KATHERINE
I never got to meet you when I visited
The Institute. It was one of your sales-
m e n who led the tour. I remember how
h e described the agnates a s if they
were some kind of mindless organisms.
More like livestock than humanity...
CROWNE
L e g a l l y , human rights don't apply.
DR. SANGER
Don't interrupt, Ellen.
KATHERINE
I remember how eager I was to believe
him. But when I saw w h a t I'd created,
in flesh and blood, when I touched h e r ,
it was I who felt less than human.
DR. SANGER
I understand.
He looks at her expressively. Perhaps he really does understand.
KATHERINE
Ester ' s life was my responsibility and
her death is my cross to bear alone. So
I'm not going to sue you, Dr. Sanger...
( b e a t , a sudden ominous tone)
But I am going to blame y o u . Until the
day I die, I will silently curse your
name. That's w h a t I wanted you to know.
She drives it home with a horrible look. Sanger accepts it with
due gravity. There's an ugly pause. Katherine gets to her feet.
KATHERINE
An d now I'd like to leave, please.
131.
CROWNE
We do have other issues to discuss...
DR. SANGER
N o , Ellen, that's enough. I think Mrs.
Ester has said all there is to say.
204
EXT . STREET - OUTSIDE THE SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER - DAY
Katherine descends the steps from the entrance. She crosses to a
black funeral sedan, parked kerbside. D r . Abrams stands waiting-
D R . ABRAMS
I hope you know what you're doing.
KATHERINE
I don't think they suspected anything.
D R . ABRAMS
J u s t understand that I've put a lot on
the line for you, Katherine.
KATHERINE
I know... But it felt good. It felt
like something John would have done.
205
INT . ROOFTOP FLIGHTPAD - THE SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER
C r o w n e escorts Sanger and Merrick to the waiting whisper.
CROWNE
We l l , I don't know about the two of
you but I'd say we got off lightly.
DR. SANGER
Did we?
CROWNE
Don't start getting maudlin, Henry.
It's a little too late in the game.
She shakes their hands as they climb into the whisper. Then
watches it take off, ascending into the blinding sunlight.
D I S S O L V E TO:
206
EXT . THE SANGER INSTITUTE - SOME WEEKS LATER
A i r blasts up from the giant funnel. Widening, we re-establish
the huge ring, the processing plant, the giant appendages of
ducting, the immutable red rocks. The shot sequence, reprising.
From the processing plant, over the main complex. From the front
of the complex, to the dock.
132.
Following the lodeway out to the perimeter wall. The gateway now
gliding open to disclose a view of the shimmering desert. Out in
the distance, the institute liner emerging from the shimmer. The
crosshatch insignia.
207
INT . ENTRANCE HALL - THE SANGER INSTITUTE - DAY
T h r o u g h the polarized glass we see the liner has docked. A TOUR
GROUP is disembarking. Another parade of plutocracy, aging
bloated me and brittle young women. They filter inside to be
greeted by the courtesy staff, led by the ever-perky LYDIA.
LYDIA
L a d i e s and gentlemen, my name is Lydia
and on behalf of our staff, I'd like
t o welcome you to The Sanger Institute.
Before we start the tour, we'll be serv-
i n g r e f r e s h m e n t s in the visitor center
and circulating our standard discretion
agreements. I should add that today you
are all very lucky because our CEO and
founder, Dr. Henry Sanger, is with us
and will be leading the tour personally.
208
INT . VISITOR CENTER - THE SANGER INSTITUTE - DAY
The tour group pick and mingle at a buffet. We isolate a
casually dressed man, lightly bearded, in a Phoenix Admirals
cap, crossing to Lydia. She turns to greet him with a smile-
LYDIA
Yes . . . Mr. Thomas, isn't it?
The man tilts up to reveal his face. We see he is LINCOLN...
LINCOLN
I can't find my sunglasses. I think I
left them on the shuttle.
LYDIA
We l l we're about to start the tour.
But I can have someone check for you.
LINCOLN
Don't worry. I'll catch up.
209
EXT . PROCESSING PLANT - DAY
Lincoln moves quickly along the wall towards the back of the
complex. Hugging the shadows, scanning for onlookers. There is
the processing plant and there, the ring of funnels. The sight
brings a sudden rush of memories, painful memories, horrors.
133.
Lincoln steels himself, then breaks from shadow and races for
the nearest funnel. He makes a running lap. His fingers grab
t h e lip of the funnel and he pulls himself up. Reaching the lip,
he finds the funnel mouth has been gridded o v e r . Then he hears-
A VOICE (O.S.)
S i r , this is a restricted area...
Lincoln lowers back to the ground. He finds himself facing A
TECHNICIAN in a hardhat. His uniform reads "Air Processing".
210
INT . ELEVATOR - PROCESSING PLANT
The doors slide open and the technician enters, stiffly. Then
suddenly topples forward, pistol whipped from behind. Lincoln
enters the elevator, a familiar handgun clenched in his fist.
211
INT . ELEVATOR SHAFT
L o o k i n g up an elevator shaft. The red pulse of the lode-poles,
rippling downward as the elevator descends from the surface.
212
INT . ELEVATOR - DESCENDING
Lincoln is now wearing the technician's uniform. He watches the
panel lights flashing down. "Level 3: Harvest" "Level 5: Labor
Decon", "Level 7: Labor Quarters". His pupils are dilating but
his face is set with determination. He knows what he must do.
His gaze drifts down to "Level Twenty: Agnate Containment".
213
INT . THE ETHER GRID
The holographic rendering of containment spins in the vaulted
chamber like a giant geometrical phantom. The ether blinks with
blue dots in their hundreds as the agnates g o about their day.
214
INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM
O v e r l o o k i n g the ether, Ethercon sits at his console. The hiss of
an opening door as someone enters. Ethercon looks round. He
greets the technician's arrival with an inquisitive look. Then
the technician takes off his hardhat. A crosshatch on his brow.
Ethercon reacts almost instantly, reaching for the console. Then
instantly freezes as Lincoln presses the handgun to his skull.
215
INT . CORRIDOR - LEVEL TWENTY SEVEN
P a l e blue light. Ethercon leads the way down a silent corridor.
Lincoln follows him, the handgun firmly levelled on his head.
134.
216
