Forklifts RUMBLE. Workers WIPE FRAME. All the bustle and
cacophony of a major seaport.
We FIND ourselves focusing on ONE LARGE CRATE. With the
GRINDING of gears, a crane lifts it off the dock and carries
it onto a ship.
In ITALIAN, the Inspectors quiz the NERVOUS CAPTAIN about
the mysterious crate.
One Inspector takes a crowbar and yanks out several strips
of plywood, REVEALING unmarked cardboard boxes inside. The
other Inspector pulls out one of the boxes and tears it open.
It is filled with tomatoes. He takes a bite out of one.
Nods. Everything seems to be order. The Captain looks
relieved. The inspector closes the cardboard box but...
Watch carefully now, because as he does this, he hits a power
button on a small HOMING DEVICE and stuffs it in with the
tomatoes...
The Captain is doing his final checks before launch. OUR
CAMERA DROPS to --
BENEATH THE WATER
where we FIND Half-Ear, in scuba gear, applying Nitramon
explosive primer to the hull of the ship.
Half-Ear finishes up. Speaks into the headset inside his
gear.
HALF-EAR
I'm done. Over.
LYLE (V.O.)
Copy that. Enjoy the ride, cowboy.
Half-Ear grabs onto the bottom rung of a ladder that is bolted
to the side of the ship as it launches off the dock and into
deeper water.
CUT TO:
TWO BRIGHT CIRCLES IN A SEA OF DARKNESS
Coming closer... becoming clearer... It's Charlie and John
Bridger, in scuba gear, riding torpedo-shaped Dive Propulsion
Vehicles (DPVs) that pull them through the deep blue sea at
a good 5 m.p.h. Both DPVs drag equipment bags.
A Global Satellite Positioning Device is mounted on the
handlebar of Charlie's DPV, being fed information via Lyle's
laptop. A circle pulsates on the monitor, a beacon to the
crate in the ship.
Half-Ear still clings to the ladder. It's a wild ride.
Through the headset inside his gear, he HEARS:
LYLE (V.O.)
Get ready. 3. 2. 1. Drop.
Half-Ear lets go of the ladder. The ship's propellers speed
by just above his head. WHOOSH.
He removes a radio-controlled detonator. Hits the button.
The hull of the boat EXPLODES.
The DPVs are now attached by a tether to an underwater lifting
bag that is used to move heavy loads through water.
The crate is surrounded by our three diver-bandits.
Using crowbars they pull apart the plywood. The cardboard
boxes of tomatoes dump out, tomatoes spilling everywhere.
And now we see what was hidden between the boxes...
A large safe.
They move like clock-work. Half-Ear aims an underwater light
at the dial. Charlie drills a small hole near the dial.
John peers inside a horoscope and lines up the three wheels
of the combination lock... until the door pops open.
As they stare at what's inside, they speak into their
headsets, heard by all.
CHARLIE
Sweet Jesus.
JOHN BRIDGER
"That for which all virtue is sold.
And almost every vice -- gold."
And now we see the contents of the safe: 160 glistening GOLD
BRICKS. Made in Singapore, they weigh 25 pounds and each one
is decorated with the face of an exotic Balinese girl. We're
talking thirty million dollars worth of gold.
The gold is now stacked and secured on the lifting bag.
They attach an underwater parachute to the bag and hook a
hose from an air tank into press of a pressure release valves
which cause the parachute to INFLATE.
Looking like a hot-air balloon underwater, the whole thing
floats up about fifteen feet. Half-Ear holds onto its side,
going along for the ride.
Then Charlie and John Bridger speed off on the DPVs which
are tethered to the inflatable bag. As they glide through
the water towards the secluded beach, we...
CUT TO:
The Humvee climbs into the mountain ranges of the Alps.
A Jeep thunders out of a hiding place in the trees and blocks
the road. The Humvee brakes to avoid running into it.
HANDSOME ROB
Shit.
Click. That's the sound of a gun cocking as it's pressed
against Handsome Rob's temple.
STEVE
Anyone acts stupid and his brains go
on the windshield.
They see the two Italian Inspectors jump out of the Jeep, AK-
47s leveled at the crew. Steve has double-crossed them.
ON THE CREW: shocked would be a good place to start.
CHARLIE
What the hell do you think you're
doing?
STEVE
Sorry Charlie. But I want the box of
Cracker Jack all to myself.
The Italians pull the crates of gold out of the back of the
Humvee.
CHARLIE
You're not thinking this through.
It's a stupid move.
STEVE
Think so? Well you're the brilliant
one. The Master Planner. Isn't that
so, John?
Steve climbs out of the Humvee, gun still on Handsome Rob,
the AK-47s aimed at the others.
STEVE
You bet on the wrong horse.
JOHN BRIDGER
We'll hunt you down. You're gonna
regret this.
Safely outside, Steve turns his gun on Bridger.
STEVE
No regrets, Dixie cup.
BOOM. He shoots Bridger in the head. Just like that.
The Italians follow suit, AK-47s SCREAMING out bursts of
full automatic fire at the crew.
The Humvee hits the side of the Jeep, grinds alongside it,
metal tearing against metal.
The Humvee's right side tires precariously hover by the cliff
and the raging water below.
The gunners keep FIRING. Bullets rip into the Humvee's tires.
It almost escapes, but it can't make it on shredded rubber.
It careens off the road and --
SERIES OF SHOTS
The Humvee plummets through the air and plunges into the
raging river.
The Humvee is palmed in its deadly embrace and hurled over.
It cartwheels into the pool below, sending up a huge geyser
of water.
It sinks out of sight.
The crates of gold are now inside the Italians' Jeep. Steve
climbs in, leaving the crew for dead.
UNDERWATER - SAME TIME
The Humvee strikes the surface bottom with an ominous thud.
The Jeep jerks to a stop. A door opens and the bodies of the
two Italians, shot dead, are dumped out into the mud.
Steve is alone now. Just him and the millions in gold.
They drag themselves ashore, Handsome Rob helping Charlie
pull Bridger's corpse. Charlie is shocked, tormented, grieved,
and angry beyond description. Against the rocky embankment,
he holds Bridger. Not wanting to ever let go.
CHARLIE (V.O.)
If you would have told me that I
would spend the next three years
searching for Steve Bandell, I would
have said that was nothing. Cause I
would have spent a lifetime looking
for that bastard if I had to.
DISSOLVE TO:
A car RISES INTO FRAME on a bustling street: a 1960 Mini
Cooper S., a worldwide motoring icon. Its shape crouches low
to the ground and its tiny 10-inch wheel-at-each-corner gives
it the legendary Mini look.
If when you see its headlights and classic grille it doesn't
bring a smile to your face, then you've got no automobile
soul.
Charlie comes out of her shop and starts down the sidewalk.
Suddenly, Handsome Rob appears out of the crowd and is walking
next to him.
HANDSOME ROB
How'd it go with the chick?
CHARLIE
I'm working on it.
HANDSOME ROB
I don't want her on the crew, Charlie.
CHARLIE
Gotta have her. Important piece of
the puzzle.
HANDSOME ROB
There has to be someone else. What
about Bill Huchins?
CHARLIE
Doing ten long at Levinworth.
HANDSOME ROB
Red O'Reilly?
CHARLIE
Chemo.
HANDSOME ROB
Martin Hernandez?
CHARLIE
Found Jesus.
Handsome Rob stops Charlie.
HANDSOME ROB
I don't want a civilian to screw
this up.
CHARLIE
She has the skill. And the motivation.
HANDSOME ROB
Exactly. She's emotional. You know
what happens when emotion gets into
it.
CHARLIE
It's emotional for all of us at this
point. Don't kid yourself.
She comes home, having shed her date.
Stella's Mini passes, weaves, tucks in between cars. She
drives like a madman.
The Mini parks in the middle of the huge, empty lot that
surrounds Veterans Field, home of the Philadelphia Phillies.
Handsome Rob's behind the wheel, flicks a cigarette butt out
his open window --
We watch it hit the pavement, ashes spark, and then behind
the fallen butt we see that every lane of the 405 is filled
with cop cars in pursuit.
CHARLIE (V.O.)
Smashed the mark by twelve minutes.
We now see Handsome Rob through the lens of a TV news
helicopter camera.
CHARLIE (V.O.)
He got a hundred and ten love letters
sent to his jail cell from women who
saw him on TV.
CUT BACK TO:
Doors open simultaneously. Everyone out. The crew eyes Stella.
Charlie gets right down to business.
CHARLIE
This is Stella. She's working with
us on this one. IDs?
Handsome Rob hands out fake driver's licenses.
LYLE
(reading his)
Melvin Lisp? Could I -- just once --
have a cool name?
HALF-EAR
(also complaining)
220 pounds? Try 180.
HANDSOME ROB
Try 'Deal A Meal'.
LYLE
I don't even have a cool nickname.
CHARLIE
Enough of this sewing-circle shit.
Phones.
Half-Ear hands out new cell phone to everyone and takes their
old phones.
HALF-EAR
Philly Steak says these are clean as
a whistle. He also got us four dozen
internal chips with different numbers.
Change out the chips twice a day.
As Charlie hands out airline tickets --
CHARLIE
We travel to L.A. separately.
LYLE
You still haven't told us the most
important thing. What exactly is the
job, Charlie? And who exactly is
she?
Lyle and Half-Ear have been kept in the dark until now.
CHARLIE
This is Stella Bridger. And we're
finishing the job that we started in
Italy.
They're a little stunned at first.
HALF-EAR
Holy shit. It's about time.
CUT TO:
MONTAGE - LAX - NIGHT
The crew deplane from five different airplanes, different
air carriers.
They disperse in separate vehicles. See Charlie at Avis,
renting a car.
See Handsome Rob renting a U-Haul panel truck.
See Stella on a hotel shuttle bus.
See Half-Ear on the underground Metro Rail, taking the Red
Line.
See Lyle in a taxi, headed south on Figueroa Street. He
notices a YOUNG WOMAN HITCHHIKING. For a moment, their eyes
connect. She is a beautiful waif and the feeling sweeps
through Lyle: if only... But the taxi passes by.
Charlie checks into Shutters, with its Victorian beach house
feel and oceanfront view.
Stella's at the Peninsula in Beverly Hills with its opulent
lobby.
Handsome Rob's at the Standard, with its kitschy decor and
ironic style. He stares at a huge empty aquarium behind the
front desk where a performance artist writhes and a DJ spins
out rhythmic throbs. Very L.A.
Half-Ear's at the new Renaissance Hollywood Hotel adjacent
to the dramatic Babylon Gate and the Kodak Theatre.
And Lyle's at the Downtown Bonaventure, riding up the glass
elevator. Perfect gearhead hotel.
The five of them sit in chairs on the balcony of his hotel
room. There's a sweeping view of the Pacific.
CHARLIE
We need an in to get a video blueprint
of the interior. We're not going
into this place blind. Half-Ear, you
take the first surveillance shift.
Who goes in, who goes out, levels of
security, you know the drill.
HALF-EAR
You got it.
CHARLIE
I also want audio surveillance on
his phone.
LYLE
I'll hack into the phone company's
central office remote observance
monitoring system and fool it into
thinking there's a legal tap on the
line. Reroute the digital copies of
his calls to our own listening post.
CHARLIE
How long?
LYLE
I'll burn through the night, have it
up and running before morning.
CHARLIE
(to Handsome Rob)
We need to know how long to get from
the house to Union Station downtown.
HANDSOME ROB
No problemo.
CHARLIE
Stella. How much time will you need
with the safe?
STELLA
I'll have it open in five minutes
flat.
HANDSOME ROB
It's not the same as opening a safe
for the cops. Your heart will be
pounding in your ears. Perspiration
on your fingertips. It's a whole
different ball game.
STELLA
You get me to the safe, I'll open
it.
Out over the ocean, the sun is in its death throes, bruising
the sky a coiling purple and orange.
Nestled at the end of a cul-de-sac on Oporto Drive in the
Hollywood Hills. Chrome. Glass. Carved wood.
The U-Haul panel truck is parked on the side of the road
that overlooks Oporto Drive and Steve's house.
A sea of cars, gridlock in L.A. Crammed in the middle of the
traffic meltdown is Handsome Rob's rental car.
The same hand clutches a very heavy duffle bag. OUR VIEW
BOOMS UP to see Steve, three years older than when we last
saw him, his beard shaved away.
Another route. Handsome Rob's rental car is in the left turn
lane waiting for the light to change.
In a bikini, Stella lies on a lounge chair under a cabana,
reading a copy of Vogue magazine.
But as we take a closer look, we see that she's really reading
the owner's manual for the Worthington 1000 safe which she's
inserted in the fold of Vogue.
Steve bangs a fist against the steel security door that covers
the closed store. The steel door rises up and a Ukrainian
named YEVHEN unlocks another door. He is the gold dealer
that Philly Steak told Charlie about.
YEVHEN
You're right on time.
A fender bender in the middle of an intersection has traffic
backed up for miles.
A freeway sign says: UNION STATION 1/2 MILE
Our crew walks along the pathways of Japanese gardens that
wind along outside the restaurant. It's a breathtaking view
from high in the Hollywood Hills. Some tourists take in the
vista.
HANDSOME ROB
Doesn't matter what time it is. It's
either bad traffic, peak traffic, or
slit-your-wrists traffic.
HALF-EAR
You gotta ride the Metro-Rail, man.
HANDSOME ROB
I'm sure it's ideal for carrying a
ton of gold, genius.
CHARLIE
What's your guesstimate?
HANDSOME ROB
If we had all green lights, fourteen
minutes. But in the twenty times
I've done it, the average is thirty-
two minutes, with a top time of fifty
minutes.
CHARLIE
Then we'll travel like Rockefeller.
They don't know where Charlie is going with this, but they've
been around him long enough to know it's going somewhere.
CHARLIE
When cars first started catching on,
workers on tall ladders would use
these swiveling colored boards for
traffic signals. Now whenever
Rockefeller would take the drive
from his mansion to his office on
Wall Street, the workers would make
sure that he got green boards all
the way.
HANDSOME ROB
How do we get all green lights?
CHARLIE
Lyle?
LYLE
Let me see what I can do.
HALF-EAR
Did you know that the first traffic
signal to be patented was invented
by a black man named Garrett Morgan?
(to Charlie)
You're not the only one who watches
the History Channel.
HANDSOME ROB
We still need an in to get the video
blueprint.
LYLE
Carpet cleaners? Gutter cleaners?
Flower delivery?
CHARLIE
We'll never get by the guard unless
they're certain it's legit. I'm
thinking cable TV. We cut his cable,
he calls the cable company. We show
up. Send a cable technician into the
house with a pinhole video camera
while we get a feed through an RF
antenna.
HANDSOME ROB
Who plays cable technician? Steve
thinks we're all dead.
But Stella knows that's not exactly true. He doesn't think
Stella is dead; he doesn't know her at all.
STELLA
If you're all dead, I guess I'm the
man for the job.
CHARLIE
Are you up for it?
STELLA
In for a penny, in for a pound.
Service trucks pull into the lot. Technicians are getting
out, finishing their shifts.
Stella, wearing Becky's work shirt, arrives before any other
workers. Using the key Handsome Rob made, she unlocks the
door to the cable truck and gets in.
The cable truck pulls over. Charlie and Lyle climb into the
back where they can't be seen.
The cable repair truck pulls over, parking down the street
from Steve's house.
Charlie gets out. He quickly uses a crowbar to lift up a
sidewalk cement grate that says CABLE on it. Inside are cable
wires that feed the street. He crouches over and uses pliers
to disconnect one of the cables.
where Steve has just stepped out the front door. The dogs
immediately back off.
Stella gets out of the truck as Steve walks over, smiling at
her.
She comes face to face with the man who killed her father.
STEVE
It's all right. They won't bother
you now.
She's not sure she's going to be able to speak or pull this
off.
STELLA
It's okay. I'm used to running into
all sorts of dogs on my job.
He holds out a hand.
STEVE
I'm Steve.
STELLA
Becky.
She shakes his hand. She hates this, feeling his skin touch
hers, but she can't betray her feelings. He stands there a
moment.
STELLA
You want to show me the problem?
STEVE
Yeah. Course. This way.
Back at the spot where Charlie disconnected the cable.
Wearing a headset with a mic, he gets the word from Lyle --
LYLE (V.O.)
Now.
Charlie reconnects the cable just as --
A different world. A different vibe. That feeling in the
gut: you don't belong here.
Half-Ear hits the buzzer for the apartment number on the
paper from the fat man. The door to the building buzzes in
response and they go inside.
Half-Ear carefully deposits the suitcase into the trunk of
the rental car. Handsome Rob closes the trunk.
HALF-EAR
Drive slow. We crash and we're a
crater.
They get into the car.
The homeboy is still attached to the car door by the knife.
His legs scurry to keep up with the moving vehicle but it's
going too fast so pretty soon he's being dragged. Bullets
whiz by him. He cries out in agony until Half-Ear has the
time to yank out the knife and the homeboy rolls away on the
pavement.
The car makes a sharp right at the next block and pulls over.
The U-Haul is waiting for them.
They get out of the rental car and open its trunk. Half-Ear
sees the bullet holes that surround the suitcase. An inch
closer and they would've been a crater.
HALF-EAR
Christ.
Parked in the lot are shimmering Supercharged Mini Coopers,
a new model that still captures the legendary Mini look and
feel.
Half-Ear climbs in one Mini. Lyle into another.
Steve bangs a fist against the steel security door that covers
the closed store. The steel door rises up and once again
Yevhen unlocks another door.
YEVHEN
You're early.
STEVE
And I'm in a hurry, okay?
Housed in a towering building on the corner of Olympic and
Grand in the heart of downtown L.A. OUR VIEW RISES UP to the
rooftop, where WE FIND Charlie and Lyle.
OUR VIEW MOVES IN CLOSER on Charlie, who adroitly picks the
lock to an access door and they climb down a short set of
steps into the
The three Minis pull out of the warehouse and head off down
the road. The U-Haul follows.
Looking sharp, Steve gets into his Ferrari.
The U-Haul is idling on the side of the street about a mile
down from Steve's house. The Vespa is parked behind it.
From up ahead, we see the Ferrari cruising down the winding
road. As it passes by.
From side streets, the Minis converge on the road and head
up towards Steve's house.
We see the three Minis pull tight U-turns and head back the
way they came.
The sun shines over the ocean and the hotel.
The U-Haul is parked on the side of the noisy, congested
boulevard. A large metal sheet is now mounted on the side of
the panel truck.
HIGH ANGLE. Parked behind the U-Haul are two of the Minis
and Lyle's Vespa. We see traffic flowing through the busy
intersection next to the vehicles. Then WE BOOM DOWN, really
fast, right into the black pavement and --
THROUGH THE DARKNESS and out the other side, so we are now
underground in the middle of the --
METRO RAIL TUNNEL
where Half-Ear is at work, mounting Nitramon primer to the
tunnel walls, Charlie assisting. They both wear orange
jumpsuits, plus headsets and mics.
HALF-EAR
Did you know Einstein's 7th grade
teacher told him he was a moron who'd
never amount to anything? Same as
mine.
CHARLIE
Still hope for that Nobel Prize.
HALF-EAR
Not me, man. But I did get my college
diploma.
CHARLIE
No shit. I thought you dropped out
of high school.
HALF-EAR
Got my GED after Italy then just
kept going.
CHARLIE
How'd you manage that, all the jobs
we've been pulling?
HALF-EAR
Quit going to strip clubs. Went to
night school instead. City college
is all.
CHARLIE
Good for you. That's a real feather
in your cap.
HALF-EAR
I didn't want to say anything to the
guys.
There's a RUMBLING SOUND in the distance.
CHARLIE
Secret's safe with me.
The RUMBLING grows unbearable as a Metro roars closer,
headlights gobbling up the dark tunnel. They press themselves
into a crevice in the wall.
With a ROAR and a gust of wind, the Metro howls by. It makes
their jaws clatter.
Handsome Rob's Mini is parked on the side of the winding
road. Using binoculars, he looks down onto Oporto Drive at
Steve's house. Into his headset:
HANDSOME ROB
Everything's quiet here. Over.
A Brink's truck climbs the road towards Steve's house, flanked
by two BMW K1200LTA motorcycles.
Through binoculars, Handsome Rob is still keeping an eye on
Steve's house from the higher vantage point.
HIS POV
The front gate rises. The Brink's truck and motorcycles are
let inside and head up the driveway.
But then he sees a SECOND ARMORED truck drive up, also guarded
by two motorcycles. And a third Brink's followed by
motorcycles turns into the driveway.
It's a convoy of matching armored trucks...
Witnessing the twist of events through his binoculars. He
speaks into his headset mic --
HANDSOME ROB
Problemo.
The caravan of armored trucks and motorcycles now head down
the driveway. The Ferrari follows behind.
Handsome Rob sees the vehicles head east on Oporto. He reports
into his mike:
HANDSOME ROB
Three Brink's trucks are leaving
with motorcycle escorts, plus Steve
in his Ferrari.
The first armored truck makes its way through the green light.
The third Brink's truck makes its way through the
intersection, the Ferrari behind it.
We see the truck with the California plate AWP82092. OUR
VIEW RISES UP until we're looking at an AERIAL VIEW as the
three armored trucks and their motorcycles fan out in three
different directions, with the Ferrari going in a fourth
direction.
Handsome Rob pulls up in his Mini and parks behind the other
Minis.
See cars collide into each other. See a domino line of rear-
end crashes. A motorcycle tumbling over.
The traffic lights turn RED simultaneously. Then all turn
GREEN. Then RED again.
It's demolition derby time. Daisy-chains of wrecks. Cars
spinning like hockey pucks. Total traffic meltdown.
It comes to the next intersection. Every light is stuck on
red -- except the left turn only signal which is green. No
choice. The truck takes it.
Signals turn green, but only for three seconds, long enough
for one car to gun through it at a time.
At the same time, we see Charlie get out of the U-Haul and
climb into the first Mini. Stella gets into the second Mini.
Half-Ear joins Handsome Rob in the third.
The three Minis jump the curb and drive right over the star-
lined sidewalk... Pedestrians throw themselves out of their
path... The cars run over Marilyn Monroe's star and the
flowers and candles left by fans... They make a sharp turn
down the cement stairs that lead to the Metro Rail platform.
At the same time --
The creeping gold truck is just about alongside the parked U-
Haul.
The section of pavement that the gold truck sits on splits
apart. The road surface drops away. Smoke billowing up as
The BRINK'S TRUCK FALLS...
Clamps unlock, releasing the heavy steel sheet from the side
of the U-Haul. It SLAMS DOWN, neatly covering the gaping
hole in the road like a huge manhole cover.
The motorcycles following the Brink's come to a sudden stop.
The motorcycle guards watch the smoke clear. The armored
truck has vanished! Vaporized in the gridlock! Gone!
Pandemonium. People scatter. A man jumps out of his BMW and
sprints away from the explosion.
Lyle gets out of the U-Haul and runs to his getaway vehicle:
the Vespa. He's about to hop on, but something stops him...
The sight of the vacant, shimmering, 2002 BMW 750iL parked
just ahead, keys dangling from the ignition.
At the same time, the motorcycle guards climb off their bikes.
Draw semi-automatic handguns. Result: more madness Bystanders
flee.
The BMW tears out of there, Lyle behind the wheel.
The motorcycle guards who were escorting the decoy trucks
hear Steve over their walkie-talkies. With squeals of rubber,
they turn around as one of the guards answers --
MOTORCYCLE GUARD
It comes out at Flower & Pico.
At the same time --
The two motorcycle guards fervently try to lift off the steel
sheet that dropped down from the U-Haul.
The motorcycle guards strain, managing to shift the steel
sheet enough so they can see the armored truck below.
The motorcycle guards heave, strain, finally getting the
steel plate off. But it's too late as --
Rush hour gridlock -- no problem. The Ferrari's 12 cylinder
massive 210 hp engine bellows as it hits 120 m.p.h. in the
breakdown lane.
A Highway Patrol car starts chasing after it, siren wailing.
Where the Blue Line rises up to ground level. The Minis
thunder into the daylight, past the above ground platform,
just as two motorcycles come flying around the corner after
them.
Picture this: two guards on each motorcycle with each man
seated behind the driver holding AK-47s in each hand, giving
them the appearance of having submachine guns growing out of
their shoulders.
Fingers go flat against the AK-47s triggers. Blowing SHOT
after SHOT at the Minis. BAM-BAM-BAM.
They head off in different directions through congested
downtown rush hour traffic.
One motorcycle takes off after Charlie's Mini. The other
goes after Handsome Rob's Mini. So Stella's free and clear
except that Steve's Ferrari is barreling down Pico and coming
after her.
Turning onto Exposition, the motorcycle in pursuit, the
chopper overhead.
His red Mini jumps a curve, now on a wide sidewalk,
accelerating full throttle for the horizon while pedestrians
flatten themselves against a high-rise in fear.
His white Mini catapults across the asphalt, the motorcycle
still right behind.
The Mini squeezes through the doorway and into the --
It bounds down outdoor steps and ramps onto the outside
entrance to the Staples Center, fitting snugly between cement
pillars that are designed to keep regular-sized cars out.
The Mini crashes out the opposite side of the arena and glides
right through the L.A. Sports Arch of Fame before escaping
onto Figueroa. Meanwhile:
The Ferrari is eating up the pavement as it hounds after
Stella. Two police cars are roaring after them both.
A cop car tries to pass the same car as the Ferrari but
smashes into an oncoming vehicle. As it spins like a corkscrew --
The rear tires spin smoke and it launches like a missile
after the Mini.
The truck falls over onto its side, sending those big jugs
all over the road, water exploding into the air and --
The Ferrari crashes through the jugs, one rolling up the
hood and over the windshield, dousing it like a car wash.
The lane is blocked by the wreck. Steve makes a right turn.
The police cruiser hits the brakes but not fast enough. It
slams into the water truck.
Steve turned onto a one-way street and he's going the wrong
way. A Jeep Wrangler almost runs into him head-on but both
cars stop just in time.
The DRIVER of Wrangler, a muscular fire plug of a guy, jumps
out, furious.
FURIOUS DRIVER
What's wrong with you, you stupid-
ass, son of a bitch, dickhead...
As more invectives are hurled, Steve gets out of the Ferrari
and walks towards the furious driver.
FURIOUS DRIVER
What? You want a piece of me? C'mon,
dumbshit. Bring it on. I'll be pulling
peanuts out of your asshole --
BANG. Steve shoots the guy's foot.
FURIOUS DRIVER
Shit! Shit! You shot me in the foot!
While the furious driver hops on one leg, Steve gets into
the Wrangler and takes off, abandoning the Ferrari. At the
same time --
Charlie's still having a helluva time getting rid of the
motorcycle. It screams like a Banshee as it streaks up
alongside the Mini. Charlie suddenly sees an AK-47 pointed
right at him.
The doors open, PING, and the Mini reverses out, spins.
LOOKING DOWN onto the building's rooftop, we see that it is
shaped like a capitol E, three towers connected by a narrow
strip. Each tower has its own elevator.
So he floors it, slaps the gears, hurtles to the edge of the
first tower and in --
EYE-POPPING CGI SLOW MOTION SHOTS
His car hurls into the wide blue empty space... The ground
deliriously distant... Spiraling through the air like a
football...
NEXT TOWER - ROOFTOP
The Mini lands right-side-up with a THUD. Charlie, rattled,
looks over his shoulder and sees the LAPD helicopter rising
over the rooftop, turbines SCREAMING.
And here comes the motorcycle. Flying from one section of
the rooftop to the next. It lands and the driver REVS it
forward --
I/E CHARLIE'S MINI
He speeds toward the edge of the roof and launches off towards
the third tower some twenty feet away. Lands. Keeps going to
the last elevator, skids to a stop.
He reaches out, punches the call button. Then looks over his
shoulder to witness --
THE MOTORCYCLE
going full throttle to make the final rooftop to rooftop
jump.
But its front wheel hits the edge slightly off-kilter...
It soars but with a slight downward trajectory...
Towards a large window on the top floor...
Then lower...
And the look on the driver's face says it all as...
The front wheel of the motorcycle SMACKS into the side of
the building, just below the window.
The guards are flung off the bike and their bodies CRASH
through the window as --
A hunk of exploding metal imbeds itself in the side of the
LAPD chopper and --
Stella's Mini pulls up to the ramp of the enclosed car carrier
at the end of Amtrak Train 59, bound for New Orleans.
She can see the other two Minis are already inside. She gets
out and hands the cargo loader a ticket.
The "All Aboard" announcement goes out over the PA system.
Then the Superliner train pulls out of the station, quickly
picking up speed.
The coupler between the car carrier and the rest of the train
is electronically disengaged.
This causes the train to separate from the car carrier. The
train speeds on without it at 100 miles per hour.
The car carrier slowly comes to a stop in the middle of
nowhere.
CUT TO:
