on a rude platform. The entire village is crowded in a large circle. They all wait for
someone. They've been waiting a long time. In the perimeter warriors keep Huron at
bay for some reason. We see Magua. He stands apart. They wait. Then ...
ANCIENT SACHEM
is led to the dais by three women down the main street between the neat rows of birch
bark lodges. Many scalps and trophies from the massacre are in evidence. He sits on the
raised platform. He looks to be in his nineties. His dark wrinkled face is contrasted by
his long white hair. His robe is painted in hieroglyphical representation of combat. He
wears numerous silver & gold medals, gifts of French, English and Dutch governors.
Most startling is his face. His dark & lined skin is enhanced by delicate lines of
tatooing. He looks up to Magua.
SACHEM
(in Huron; subtitled)
The tomahawks of your young men have
been very red.
MAGUA
(in Huron; subtitled)
Many of the Yengeese are dead, great
Sachem.
(sound dissolve to English)
I have brought three of my prisoners,
to honor you. Two are the children
of Munro. Whose scalp hangs on my
lodge pole. And whose heart I cut from
his chest.
Now we see Cora on the ground. Defeat & fear are held in place by her determination.
Alice looks around, in another place. Heyward's hands are bound between his back with
a piece of wood wedged through his elbows.
CUT TO ...
EXTERIOR DIFFERENT FOREST - WIDE FRONTAL: UNCAS, HAWKEYE &
CHINGACHGOOK - DAY
running. Then Uncas drops and the other two follow.
WIDE OVER THEIR SHOULDERS: THE HURON "CASTLE"
seen in the distance through the sparse trees. They have dropped at the very periphery
of the forest where the woods end. (The lay of the land is important for action that
follows: the village is built in a meadow. To the left is a cliff face that rises to a rocky
promontory. On the right is a path that winds up to the promontory and beyond, across
the mountains.)
Hawkeye sees ...
HAWKEYE'S POV: THE VILLAGE, CAPTIVES & HURON CROWD
in the center, outside the largest lodge.
HAWKEYE
slams the earth with his fists. They didn't intercept them in time. Difficult odds just
became impossible.
CUT TO ...
EXTERIOR HURON VILLAGE - MAGUA - DAY
MAGUA
... the earth was pale. Our tomahawks
were bright. Now they are dull from war.
And the Huron rich with the trophies of
honor ... Magua will sell the English
officer to Les Francais and the reward is
my gift to you, wise one ... The women -
children of the white war chief - will burn
in our fires so all can share in this.
The sachem considers this. Then he looks up and sees something beyond Magua.
MAGUA
senses the sachem's eye line ...
HAWKEYE
unarmed, walking through the Hurons. A young boy rushes at him. Hawkeye, at the
last possible second, dodges. Others catch and restrain the boy. The Hurons are
astounded a European would simply walk into their camp.
CORA
sees him enter, doesn't believe he's there.
CORA
Nathaniel!
Hawkeye glances at her, doesn't respond. The situation is a stick of dynamite ready to
go off.
HAWKEYE
(to Heyward; low)
Translate for me, Major. Into French.
Every word ... as I say it.
Magua starts towards Hawkeye, his tomahawk slipping into his hand.
HAWKEYE
(to Sachem)
I come to you unarmed and in peace to
unstop your ears, wise one. Because the
Hurons are mislead by the words of the
wolf who's never spoken the truth.
Sachem gestures with his hand to Magua. Magua reluctantly stops advancing on
Hawkeye. Heyward's French translation has faded to a murmur. We hear Hawkeye's
English.
HAWKEYE
Let the children of the dead Colonel Munro
go free and take the fire out of the English
anger over the murder of their helpless ones.
MAGUA
(to Sachem)
Our father, Montcalm, is greater than the
Yengeese in the arts of war. The Huron
do not fear English anger.
HAWKEYE
(to Sachem)
Wise one, the French fathers made peace
and swore to their honor not to break the
friendship. Magua broke it. It is false that
the French would not be friends, still, to
the Huron.
Sachem reacts.
MAGUA
(laughs)
It made our French father happy to never
have to fight the same Yengeese again.
He told me this without telling me this.
Hawkeye realizes this is true.
HAWKEYE
So the Huron are the servants of the French?
To do what the French are shamed to do?
MAGUA
No.
(to Sachem)
Huron serve no one. The French father
believes he fooled Magua because he is so
proud of his cleverness, he is blind. But it
is the Huron path that Magua walks down,
not the French one ... Now, Les Francais,
also, fear Huron. That is good. When the
Huron is strong from their fear, we will make
the terms of trade with Les Francais. And we
will trade as the white man trades. Take land
from the Abnakes; fur from the Osage, Sauk
& Fox. And make the Huron great. Over
other tribes. No less than the whites, as strong
as the whites.
Hawkeye appears to be losing his debate with Magua.
HAWKEYE
(to Sachem)
Magua would use the ways of Les Francais
and the Yengeese ...
MAGUA
(to Sachem)
The red man put down the bow, picked up
the fire stick and became the best warrior
in the forest. Yes. It is the only way.
HAWKEYE
Would the Huron make his Algonquin brothers
foolish with brandy and steal his lands to sell
them for gold to the white man? Would the
Huron have greed for more land than a man
can use? Like Francais Black Robes do?
Would Huron kill tribes with disease? Would
the Huron fool Seneca into taking all the
animals in the forest for beads & brandy? But
sell the fur to the white man for gold? ...
(to Sachem)
Those are the ways of Yengeese and Les
Francais masters. Are they the ways of Huron
men who hunt & work the land? Or of dogs?
... Magua's heart is twisted. He would make
himself into what twisted him. A Dog, become
Master of Dogs. But are Hurons dogs?
... Magua's way is false. It is like the white
sickness. Magua's way will bring only sadness
and shame. Is there another way? I don't know.
(pauses)
I am Nathaniel of the Yengeese; Hawkeye,
adopted son of Chingachgook, of the Mohican
people ... Let the children of the dead Munro go
free ... I speak the truth.
Magua starts to rebut. Sachem holds up his hand and stops him. Nobody talks. Sachem
whispers to the older men on either side of him.
MAGUA
waits for the decision.
CORA
looks to Alice, then to Hawkeye.
HAWKEYE
exchanges a desperate look with Cora and then senses the Sachem is staring at him
from the perspective of nearly a century of laws & judgments. Then ... to every word.
SACHEM
The white man comes like a day that has
passed. And night enters our future with
him ...
(pause)
Our council talks since I was a boy:
What is the Huron to do?
(pause)
But Magua would lead Huron down paths
that make us not Hurons.
(the judgment)
Dark girl burn in fire to heal the twisted
heart of Magua.
Cora, hearing the sentence ... Hawkeye's losing her.
SACHEM
(continuing)
Munro daughter with moon in her hair
must be Magua's wife so Munro's seed
doesn't die.
Alice is gone, living in some dark recess of her mind.
SACHEM
(continuing; dissolves
back to French)
... and Yengeese officer not go to Les
Francais, but back to Yengeese so their
hatred burns less bright. La Longue Carabine,
go in peace.
People move, start to implement the sentence. Hawkeye's panicked. Cora is jerked
upright. She looks at Hawkeye in terror: Sachem is starting to depart.
HAWKEYE
No! listen.
(to Heyward)
Tell him I'll trade him! Me for her! Tell him!!
Heyward translates into rapid-fire French.
HAWKEYE
(shouts)
I am La Longue Carabine! My death is a
great honor to the Huron. Take me!
Cora is jerked forward by three Hurons. Magua grabs Alice. Cora strikes at Magua. He
knocks her aside. Chaos & confusion. Meanwhile:
MAGUA
(French; subtitled)
This is not the voice of wisdom. I go to
the Hurons of the Lakes! You are women.
Send your arrows and guns to the Seneca,
beg from them venison to eat, corn to grind.
Slaves, dogs, rabbits, thieves ... I spit on you!
Those Hurons who hear, do so in deadly, boding silence. Magua and his fourteen hard
core braves start out as ...
SACHEM
heard Heyward's translation. He looks at Heyward, then looks at Hawkeye and he nods
his head.
HAWKEYE
sees this. His eyes go to Cora. They've stopped dragging her towards the fire pit.
Hawkeye steps forward to surrender. Cora is thrown at him. Cora looks around wildly.
Instead of taking Hawkeye, two warriors grab Heyward.
HEYWARD
is immediately hamstrung and his legs collapse. He gasps. He's caught under the arms
and dragged forward.
HAWKEYE
I said to trade me!
Hawkeye's holding Cora. Heyward struggles to be seen.
HEYWARD
... compliments, Mr. Poe.
(pause)
Take her and get out.
CORA
(standing)
What are they doing to Duncan?
Duncan!
He's gone. They start to ease away from the mass of Hurons.
HAWKEYE
(low to himself)
And my compliments to you ...
CORA
Alice?
Hawkeye's concentration is on backing out of the Huron mob. Will the Sachem's
judgment be honored? Will some warriors hack down Hawkeye & Cora? As they go ...
CORA
moves towards her sister. But Hawkeye holds her tightly as they retreat.
CORA'S POV: ALICE
with Magua's group crosses the path. He drags Alice behind him like baggage. She
regains her feet. Magua is oblivious to her. He's heading towards the plateau.
CUT TO ...
EXTERIOR FOREST, TREE LINE - CHINGACHGOOK & UNCAS - DAY
Uncas sees Magua's direction. Uncas touches his father, grabs his musket and races off.
Chingachgook reaches to stop him, but he's too late. Chingachgook's hand in the air ...
TWO-SHOT: HAWKEYE & CORA
near the tree line. Hawkeye has eyes only for ...
HAWKEYE'S POV: HURONS
moving towards fire pit. One turns to watch Hawkeye & Cora depart. Will he arouse
others to attack? Behind him, others are doing something to Heyward and flames leap
up.
CORA'S EYES
are on Alice, off to the right in the meadow.
HAWKEYE
tense. They're almost there.
CHINGACHGOOK
holding Killdeer.
CHINGACHGOOK'S POV: MASSED HURON
Sky & flames. Suddenly, Heyward's stood upright into the fire, bound to a bracket by
his arms. As the flames start devouring him ...
HAWKEYE & CORA
close to Chingachgook and the tree line ...
CHINGACHGOOK
tosses Hawkeye Killdeer. As fast as he jams it into his shoulder he FIRES.
HEYWARD
among the hollering Hurons, is shot dead. It goes unnoticed.
CUT TO ...
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - UNCAS - DAY
half-way up the rock face. He's approaching an overhang. He climbs with a reckless
desperation ...
EXTERIOR STREAM - HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK
pound across the (sic) to the meadow towards Magua's path ...
CORA
trying to stay with them, scrambles up ...
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - UNCAS
reaches the overhang. It juts away from the face six feet.
THE CEILING OF THE OVERHANG
Uncas' hand jams into a crack in the granite, forms a fist and twists, making a wedge.
He swings out, dangling in space by the hand wedged into the rock. His right hand
reaches out and up, searching the vertical face for ...
UNCAS' HAND
... a rock flake. An indentation. Anything ... His fingers find a diagonal crevice and ...
UNCAS
swings out, now hanging by the vertical face above the overhang. His features are
distorted with determination. Nothing will stop him. His right hand grabs another rock.
His arms snap him up. Then push. He's on the ledge. Moving fast ...
CUT TO ...
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - HURONS - DAY
on point are approaching the path above the promontory. Five warriors are ahead of
Magua. One behind him drags Alice.
FIRST
Huron starts up the narrow path. Suddenly ...
UNCAS
slams him off the rock with the butt of his musket.
WIDE ANGLE
Two's musket coming up. Uncas swings. FIRES. Before he's fallen, Uncas bayonets
Three.
FOURTH
FIRES, misses, swings. Uncas slips the swung musket, but it catches his elbow. Uncas'
musket falls. Before it hits the ground his tomahawk is out and hacks Four over the
edge ...
MAGUA
running forward past Five, confronts Uncas head on. It's incredibly fast.
UNCAS'
three tomahawk swings are dodged by Magua whose own knife streaks like silver
flashes. Uncas, gashed on arms and chest, feints right and slams Magua with an open
hand, closes and the men are intertwined steel and muscle ... and Magua throws Uncas.
Going with him and rolling off Uncas, Magua's knife flashes into his armpit. Uncas'
right arm is useless. He scrambles up. Next to the expertise of a mature warrior like
Magua, Uncas' raw, young determination may not be enough.
EXTERIOR - MEADOW - CHINGACHGOOK
freezes.
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - UNCAS
closing, swings. Magua moves inside, stabs Uncas twice, turns him to face the edge,
ripping his head left to expose the right underside of his throat.
CLOSE: MAGUA'S
knife arm punches forward.
WIDE: PROMONTORY
Uncas falls down the face onto to the rocks.
CHINGACHGOOK
seeing his boy killed, CRIES out and is charging up the path, Hawkeye following.
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - ALICE
backs to the edge.
MAGUA
moves on Alice. His knife is low, about to strike. She stares at him. Her eyes are like
pools of deep water, calm, open, almost beatific. It stops Magua ...
MAGUA
inexplicably, drops his knife hand. He's riveted by her. About him, there's a glimmer of
something else. He wears a human face for this one moment. He reaches out with his
other hand to offer her safety. To bring her back from the edge ...
ALICE
looks down at Uncas, her lover, dead on the rocks below. She turns to Magua with
enigmatic calm. Her eyes seem to see into him. She steps off the edge. She falls to her
death next to Uncas ...
EXTERIOR MEADOW - CORA
collapses to her knees on the ground and her face falls forward into her hands ...
HURON WARRIORS
are running down the path to intercept Chingachgook, charging uphill, fueled by a
father's rage, and Hawkeye. One Huron aims at the center of Chingachgook's chest ...
HAWKEYE
FIRES past his father's side. The Huron's blown off the path. Hawkeye races to reload
on the run ...
EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - MAGUA
sees the approach of Chingachgook.
TO CHINGACHGOOK
Huron warriors are an irrelevance. He slams one aside with his musket.
HAWKEYE FIRES.
HURON
with tomahawk, about to blindside Chingachgook, is SHOT DOWN.
MAGUA
charging Chingachgook.
VERY WIDE
Two men, like dots, race to collide at the center of the promontory. Now the others fall
back... It's one-on-one. Hawkeye slows ...
COMBATANTS
Magua - confident, pumped up - feints with his left, his tomahawk appearing in his
right, sweeping backhand, while his left, magically holding his blade, is jamming up to
gut Chingachgook. Chingachgook's dead. Except ...
CHINGACHGOOK
isn't there. He rolled and, on one knee with his back to Magua, his arm slams rearward.
The massive war club crashes into Magua's back.
MAGUA
stunned, turns to hatchet Chingachgook ...
CHINGACHGOOK
now up and towering - slams his club right into Magua's assault ... destroying it,
breaking Magua's right arm. And ...
CHINGACHGOOK
... with his momentum, spins like a shot-putter and the next blow cripples Magua's left
side and crushes part of his chest.
ANOTHER BLOW
destroys Magua's collar and shoulder.
MAGUA
amazed. His body is broken and crippled, but he still stands. He looks into the eyes of
the last warrior of the Mohicans.
CHINGACHGOOK
UNCAS!!!
And he spins and swings. The blade side of the war club punches into Magua's chest,
caving him in two.
WIDE
Magua dies in the dust.
HAWKEYE
watching Chingachgook's heaving back. It's over.
CORA
alone, kneeling in the meadow. Her eyes downcast ...
FADE OUT ...
FADE IN
EXTERIOR - MOUNTAIN TOP - WIDE REAR SHOT - NEXT DAY
Chingachgook's at the edge, facing the endless rolling forests to the west. A haze of
sunlight illuminates silver and lead clouds. Hawkeye is a little apart, watching his father.
HAWKEYE'S POV: CHINGACHGOOK
speaks to the sky.
CHINGACHGOOK
(Mohican)
Great Spirit and the Maker of all Life ...
ON HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK
We HEAR Hawkeye's English translation in VOICE OVER:
CHINGACHGOOK/
HAWKEYE (V.O.):
(in English)
... a warrior goes to you swift and straight
as an arrow shot into the sun. Welcome him
and let him take his place at the council fire
of my people.
(pause)
He is Uncas, my son.
(pause)
Bid them patience and ask death for speed;
for they are all there but one
- I, Chingachgook - Last of the Mohicans.
Chingachgook's hands drop to his sides. He lets out his breath with a weariness. His
eyes seek Hawkeye's. They hold ...
CORA
is standing, her back to us, in front of a rock-covered grave with a wooden cross. Next
to it is Uncas' burial platform. Cora [says a] silent prayer. Then she pauses, crosses
herself. Her emotions are spent. She moves next to Hawkeye. He takes her hand.
HAWKEYE & CORA]
HAWKEYE
Will you go back to England?
CORA
I have nothing to go back for.
Long pause.
HAWKEYE
Then will you stay in America?
She turns to face him.
HAWKEYE
And will you be my wife?
Pause.
CORA
Yes.
They hold each other's eyes. She searches his face.
CORA
Where will we go?
HAWKEYE
Winter with the Delaware, my father's
cousins. And in the spring, cross the
Ohio and look for land to settle with my
father in a new place called Can-tuck-ee.
They move next to Chingachgook. He senses they're beside him. Hawkeye's arm is
around her shoulders.
CHINGACHGOOK
The frontier moves with the sun and pushes
the red man of the wilderness forests in front
of it. Until one day there will be nowhere left.
Then our race will be no more, or be not us ...
The frontier place is for people like my white
son and his woman and their children.
HAWKEYE
That's my father's sadness talking.
Hawkeye puts a hand on his shoulder.
CHINGACHGOOK
No. It is true ... One day ... there will be no
more frontier. Then men like you will go, too.
Like the Mohicans.
(pause)
And new people will come. Work. Struggle
to make their light ... One mystery remains.
HAWKEYE
What is that?
Cora, listening to Chingachgook, takes Hawkeye's hand.
CHINGACHGOOK
Will there be anything left to show the world
that we ever did exist?
REAR SHOT
Cora stands next to her man. Hawkeye puts his arm around his father. They stare out
over the wilderness.
THE END
Last of the Mohicans, The
Writers : Michael MannChristopher Crowe
Genres : AdventureRomanceWar
User Comments
Back to IMSDb