The night is stillborn.
Without sound or movement and nothing is in definition. All we see
are degrees of blackness in this unlit world. The vague impressions
of an African village in the void... a ragged line of tukuls (straw
huts)... a bicycle propped against a mud wall... a soccer ball in
the dirt...
And slowly the blackness begins to shift... an otherworldly light
seeping in from someplace far off... shadows contorting in a ghostly
orange flicker... images emerging... the silhouettes of men coming
into this village carrying flaming torches.
CHAOS! -- PANDEMONIUM! -- the black sky ablaze in apocalyptic fire --
2
families yanked out of their burning tukuls by LRA rebels -- the
adult males of this village shot dead or bludgeoned to death -- the
women and children forced into the center of the village -- huddled
together and weeping --
-- and now we see WILLIAM hauled out -- his captor shouting to
another soldier -- pointing to WILLIAM'S mother and she's pulled
from the group and forced onto her knees...
... and WILLIAM is brought in front of her -- his captor saying
something in Arabic as he hands him a club -- "Kill her!" -- WILLIAM
shaking his head `no' -- tossing the club in the dirt and --
CRACKKK! -- WILLIAM is hit with the butt of a rifle -- goes down --
blood streaming down his face as he's pulled back up to his feet --
crying -- shaking with fear...
... and then he sees his mother staring up at him... and despite the
hell unfolding around them we see a moment here between mother and
son... something calm and reassuring in the way she's looking at him
now... her eyes full of love... and pity... for her child in this
terrible moment... and before we see how this ends we --
CUT TO:
BLACKNESS
FOR A LONG BEAT -- AND THEN WE BLEED UP WHITE LETTERS ON THE BLACK
SCREEN THAT READ --
MACHINEGUN PREACHER
... AND THEN THE ECHOED VOICES OF MEN YELLING TO ONE ANOTHER...
BOOMING MUSIC... TAUNTS... WHISTLES... AN ANNOUNCEMENT, INAUDIBLE,
OVER A LOUDSPEAKER... TAKING US TO...
A beat-up CHEVY VEGA parked at the curb. Sam's wife, LYNN, 30's, in
a thrift store dress, leaning against the car, waiting.
Sam (dressed in civilian clothes now) pushes out a door and she sees
him, straightens her hair, an uneasy smile.
LYNN
Hey baby.
The Vega pulled of the side of the road and Sam fucking Lynn in the
back. There's nothing tender about what we're watching here. Sam
finishes and Lynn slumps into the seat, pulls down her dress.
SAM
Gimme a smoke.
LYNN
Don't got any.
SAM
What, you quit?
(LYNN NODS)
Shit, that ain't gonna last.
The Vega pulls up to a beat-to-shit single-wide and Sam and Lynn get
out. We see a homemade sign hanging outside the trailer that reads,
"Welcome Home Daddy!"
And now Sam's daughter PAIGE (6) bursts out of the trailer and down
the steps... Followed by Sam's mother, DAISY, mid 60's, comes out of
the trailer.
PAIGE
DADDY!
And she jumps into his arms.
SAM
Hey bug...
PAIGE
You see yer sign? Grandma and me made it
this mornin.
SAM
Yep, real nice.
Lynn enters the trailer, Paige follows.
4
SAM (CONT'D)
How'ya doin, Mom?
DAISY
Welcome home, Sam.
Sam straddles the bike and kicks it to life. He PEELS OUT, kicking
up gravel as he blasts past Paige and Daisy.
Sam riding down the road.
Sam and Donnie in this car, parked in front of broken down clapboard
houses. Donnie pointing through the windshield...
DONNIE
Right there. With the green light.
Bone chill cold. Sam and Donnie on this porch, scarves pulled around
their necks, hands shoved into their jackets trying to stay warm.
Donnie KNOCKING at the door...
DONNIE
Hey, man, you there?! Open up...
Donnie KNOCKING again and the door cracks an inch... and we see a
black man with a SHAVED HEAD on the other side looking out...
SHAVED HEAD
Fuck are you?
DONNIE
It's me, man, c'mon. Fuckin cold out
here.
SHAVED HEAD
I don't know you.
DONNIE
Yeah you do, man. I saw you the other
day. I'm Bobby's friend.
9
SHAVED HEAD
Who the fuck is Bobby?
Suddenly Sam pulls a short barrel shotgun from his jacket --
MOSSBERG 10 GAGE -- presses it to the door and --
BOOOM!
MUSIC LOUD AS IT GOES! -- SCREAMING! -- Sam and Donnie pumped and
celebrating after the robbery. Sam in the passenger seat, already
cooking coke in a bent spoon...
SAM
See that nigger's face when I put it in
his mouth?
DONNIE
Cook that shit up, man! I wanna hit when
I'm going a hundred miles an hour in this
thing.
Sam juices a needle and spikes Donnie's arm. Donnie feeling the
rush... pressing on the gas and howling like a wild man... both of
them wired out of their heads... BLASTING down this dark, country
road... and then they see...
A HITCHHIKER
Up the road, standing in this bitter cold with his thumb out.
SAM
Look at this sorry fucker...
Donnie's car pulls off the road and the Hitchhiker hustles up to it.
Donnie's car skidding off the shoulder of the road, back door
popping open and the Drifter's body dumped into the dirt. The car
PEELS OUT, accelerates, tail lights disappearing into the dark.
13
Days later and we see Lynn and Paige, dressed up, sitting in the
idling car, waiting.
PAIGE
He comin or ain't he?
LYNN
I don't know.
Months later and the snow has thawed... it's summer... and we see
Sam with other CONSTRUCTION WORKERS finishing their day, packing up
their tools, cleaning up. We notice that his gaunt cheeks have
filled out and he looks healthier.
And now a CONTRACTOR comes up to Sam, hands him a check.
CONTRACTOR
Thanks for your help, Sam.
SAM
You need me to stay on, I can.
CONTRACTOR
We're movin inside next week.
SAM
I can drywall, tile, whatever you got.
Know my way round some electrical too.
CONTRACTOR
Sorry, Sam, I gotta cut the crew. Just
ain't enough work.
Sam alone on these steps, lost in thought. Screen door opens and
Lynn comes out, sits next to him.
SAM
She asleep?
LYNN
Think so, in our bed... she's funny.
BEAT.
SAM
Job's done.
LYNN
I thought that was goin through August?
Sam shakes his head, and they're quiet... both of them sitting here
on these steps... the burden of this life catching up to them in
this moment.
16
And we see Sam standing next to his Harley, talking to a MECHANIC.
MECHANIC
... don't deal bikes. Probably have a
better shot if you take it over to Pitt.
Or maybe down to Philly.
SAM
I gotta sell it today.
MECHANIC
Give you four hundred for it.
SAM
There's almost two grand on this bike.
Them pipes right there is custom. You
wont see pipes like that on anything
round here.
MECHANIC
Like I said, don't deal bikes. I'll give
you four-twenty. Cash. Best I can do.
CLOSE ON Sam, behind the wheel of the car, parked, staring out the
front windshield. REVERSE to see he's in the parking lot of the bar,
just watching the entrance.
HEAVY WINDS! -- FLASHES OF LIGHTENING! -- a storm starting to batter
the trailer park.
Sam opening the door, coming down the steps, looking up to the sky
and it is fucking black, swirling, ominous.
A brilliantly clear day and we see neighbors picking up after the
storm. Sam on a ladder leaning against the trailer, nailing down a
strip of bent aluminum as a pickup truck pulls up. Window rolls down
and we see it's the CONTRACTOR from before.
CONTRACTOR
Sam.
SAM
Billy.
CONTRACTOR
Tried to ring ya but your phones down.
SAM
Yep.
Sam climbs down, moves to the truck, shakes his hand.
CONTRACTOR
Looks like ya made it through pretty
good.
SAM
We're alright.
CONTRACTOR
Damn twister touched down eight places
between here and Noblesville. Chewed up
six hundred homes in Fulton County alone.
(BEAT)
Got all the work you can handle if you're
interested.
SAM
I'm interested...
Sam, seizing an opportunity here.
22
SAM (CONT'D)
But I'm puttin my own crew together. We
go 50/50 on the jobs. You cover any heavy
machines I need.
CONTRACTOR
60/40 til you pay me back on the tools.
Then we'll go half.
SAM
You got a deal.
CUT TO:
A SHOT of Lynn carefully applying a vinyl application on the side of
a new (but used) truck that reads, "Childers Construction Company"
CUT TO:
C.U. ON lynn's closed eyes -- smiling --
LYNN
What are you doin, Sam Childers?
Months later and we're with Lynn and Paige, their eyes shut, as Sam
leads them both by the hand...
PAIGE
I wanna peek.
SAM
Keep em closed.
Sam finally stops them.
SAM (CONT'D)
Ok. Open em up.
They do and both of their eyes go wide with surprise.
PAIGE
Where are we?
SAM
We're home, little girl.
REVERSE to see a modest two bedroom house at the end of this
driveway. Their new home.
PAIGE
That's ours?
23
SAM
Sure is. Go check it out.
Paige sprints for the house as Lynn hugs Sam, softly starts to cry
into his shoulder.
LYNN
It's beautiful.
Two weeks later and we're in the rural countryside outside Kampala,
Uganda. Sam on the roof of a bombed out school building with other
white VOLUNTEERS, working.
Sam looks below to see a dozen black men dressed in the ragged
fatigues of the Sudanese People's Liberation Army (SPLA). Each is
carrying an AK 47 and standing guard at various points around this
compound. The lead soldier is a man named DENG. ANGLE three others
we'll come to know as "NINETEEN", "MARCO" and "A.J."
It's later and we see Deng sitting underneath an awning by himself,
working on his machine gun. Sam approaches...
SAM
You Ugandan Army or what?
DENG
SPLA.
SAM
What's that?
DENG
Sudanese People's Liberation Army. We are
freedom fighters.
SAM
Name's Sam Childers.
DENG
I am Deng.
There is a certain reserved nobility in this man, in the way he
carries himself and speaks. An unwavering strength and self-reliance
born from a lifetime of war and struggle.
27
SAM
(re: Deng's weapon)
Givin ya problems?
DENG
Yes. A bit.
SAM
Double-feed?
DENG
Sometimes.
SAM
Lemme have a look...
Deng hesitates, then hands his AK over to Sam who pops the mag out
and studies it...
SAM (CONT'D)
Yer mag is tight. See here...
(INDICATING)
The loads are feedin right to the barrel
face. That's yer problem...
Sam pulls out a knife and begins to work on the base plate of the
mag as he explains...
SAM (CONT'D)
... you need this plate to ramp into the
chamber... that way yer brass won't get
stuck...
(FINISHING)
... there ya go, should be better...
And Sam hands the weapon back.
DENG
Thank you.
SAM
No problem.
DENG
Are you military?
SAM
No, not me. I ain't the military type.
Ain't so good with bein told what to do.
DENG
When did you learn about weapons?
Sam considers the question for a moment... then simply says...
28
SAM
Long time ago. Different life.
It's mid-day, blazing hot, and we see Sam approaching Deng.
SAM
Hey, Deng, you wanna Coke?
Sam offers him a can and he takes it.
DENG
Thank you.
SAM
Got a question for ya.
DENG
Yes?
SAM
I wanna go into Sudan this weekend. Need
someone to show me around. You
interested?
DENG
The others are going into Kampala.
29
SAM
That ain't my speed no more. I wanna see
some country.
Deng looks at him, surprised by the request...
DENG
You want to see?
A dirt road cutting through grassy plain stretching in every
direction... and we see a BRIGHT YELLOW BUS speeding toward us in
the distance, kicking a rooster tail of dust high into the air...
and as it gets closer we see 15 or 20 men piled onto the roof,
hanging on for dear life as this bus bounces over the road...
A dense sea of people. 20,000 displaced refugees living on top of
each other.
Life is lived out in the open here... women bent over brightly
colored washtubs sloshing clothes in soapy water... smoke from giant
cooking pots drifting into the air... semi-clothed children, some
with even younger children on their hips, running everywhere. The
poverty and hopelessness is overwhelming.
And we see Sam and Deng walking through the camp...
DENG
The Muslim North has tried to kill the
Christian South for 30 years. Two million
have lost their lives...
Deng sweeping his hand, indicating the mass of refugees.
DENG (CONT'D)
... these people have been driven from
their villages, however these camps are
not much better...
A row of wood sheds and worn nylon tents marks the hospital area.
Each enclosure jammed with the desperately sick. Battle-weary AID
WORKERS move among them, doing what they can, caring for the ones
who are most desperately ill.
DENG
Cholera and Malaria are everywhere, there
is little food and not enough UN soldiers
to protect everyone. Even here they worry
the LRA will attack at night.
And another SPLA soldier comes up to Deng --
SPLA SOLDIER 1
(ARABIC)
Are you from Kitgum?
DENG
(ARABIC)
Yes.
SPLA SOLDIER 1
(ARABIC)
Someone wants to speak with you.
31
Deng turns to Sam...
DENG
I'm sorry, Sam... I'll be five minutes.
SAM
Course, do what you gotta do.
Deng leaves and now Sam is completely alone, taking in this mire of
humanity all around him. And suddenly there's COMMOTION! -- two aid
workers coming into this tent carrying a WOMAN on a stretcher. One
of the aid workers looking around -- a white woman -- mid 30's --
her name is AGNETE CLOSSON, Regional Director of Doctors Without
Borders. She sees Sam across the tent.
AGNETE
Excuse me. You. Can you help please?
Sam moving to her --
AGNETE (CONT'D)
We need to transfer her to the bed. Get
her shoulders...
Sam grabbing the woman underneath the shoulders as another aid
worker gets her feet...
AGNETE (CONT'D)
One, two, three...
And they swing the woman over to a cot... but as they do the sheer
piece of blood-stained muslin that was covering her face falls
away... and we see that she has been mutilated... her lips cut off
of her face...
... and now a DOCTOR sweeps into the tent and begins to work on her.
Sam and Agnete pushed back, away from the action. Sam still shocked
by what he's seen.
SAM
What happened to her face?
AGNETE
The rebels cut off her lips because she
argued. These are Kony's orders.
SAM
Who's Kony?
Agnete, suddenly suspicious, takes an appraising look of Sam.
AGNETE
Who are you with?
SAM
I'm with Deng over there.
32
AGNETE
What organization are you with?
SAM
Working with a Christian group down
South. Just up here takin a look around,
seein a bit of the country.
AGNETE
This isn't a tourist destination, this is
a war zone. You stay in this area, you'll
be killed.
(BEAT)
Thank you for your help.
And she walks off.
Establishing a bustling trading center on the border of Uganda and
Sudan. Noisy and overpopulated, a maze of concrete and tin
buildings, hundreds of people on the streets, riding bicycles,
finishing their business before nightfall.
Sam has no response... and Deng lights his cigarette... and suddenly
we hear voices... through the open window... children's voices...
Sam peering into the darkness but seeing nothing... only empty
streets... and then one-by-one... out of the darkness like
apparitions... we see children coming up the street carrying
bedrolls... some of them singing spiritual hymns as they walk...
laughing as children do... at first just a dozen or so... and then
more... fifty... a hundred...
Deng steps onto the balcony next to Sam.
DENG
They are night commuters. They come from
deep in the bush. Their parents send them
out because it is safer to sleep here
than in their own homes.
SAM
Why?
DENG
Because death comes at night in the
villages and refugee camps.
And we continue to watch this great migration of children... now
streaming into this town... a few of them finding a dark corner just
below us... unrolling their reed mats... huddling up against each
other for the long night...
DENG (CONT'D)
These are the lucky one so far. The ones
the rebels have not found. The invisible
children.
34
Sam watching them for another beat then suddenly turning, moving
back into the room...
DENG (CONT'D)
Where are you going?
Sam exiting the hotel, moving to a group of 5 children huddled on
the sidewalk...
SAM
Get up... let's go...
The children looking up, surprised to see a white man here...
SAM (CONT'D)
Come on...
The children getting to their feet... and Sam moves to another
cluster of children up the block as Deng catches up to him...
DENG
What are you doing?
SAM
They ain't sleepin out here. Tell em
they're comin inside.
(to children on the ground)
Ya'll get up... let's go...
And Sam starts to move up the block further, wanting to gather up
more children, but Deng stops him...
DENG
Sam, there are too many...
And he looks up the street and we see more children here than we
thought... hundreds of young kids huddled on the streets...
DENG (CONT'D)
... you can't help them all.
Sam knows he's right. A moment here as he looks to the children he's
gathered, staring up at him...
SAM
I can help these here.
35
The pickup arrives and Sam, Deng, and the other soldiers hop out...
and this is what they see:
Complete devastation. 30 or 40 bodies mutilated and stacked outside
smoking tukuls. Some children already here, on their knees, weeping
next to the corpses of their parents. If you could smell the air it
would smell of burnt flesh and death.
Sam silent, aghast, just staring at the horror all around him...
... and now we see GREEN SHORTS and his sister arriving at the
village... moving to their family's tukul and discovering their
mother and father piled outside. Naked and burned alive. And the
sister falls onto her mother's corpse and begins to wail as GREEN
SHORTS stands there -- frozen -- staring down at his dead parents --
and suddenly --
MOVEMENT! -- from inside the tukul... a small dog... a family pet...
darting into the open... running across the dirt... GREEN SHORTS
going after it, yelling his name...
Sam watching the boy chasing after his dog, rounding a corner out of
sight...
... for a moment...
... just the boy's voice calling after his dog... and then...
BOOOOM!
A muffled burst -- in the distance -- Sam, Deng, and the other
soldiers running out of the village toward the explosion...
... Sam, Deng, and the others arriving at the source of the
explosion. And we see GREEN SHORTS laying on the side of the road...
cut in half by a land mine... his dead eyes wide open with
surprise...
... and Sam drops to his knees... lifting what's left of the boy
into his arms and rocking him back and forth... and we watch as a
terrible sadness overtakes him... something happening here... a
fierce and overwhelming burden dropping into this man as he holds
this dead boy... in the dirt... in the middle of this savage
world...
... and as Sam puts it, his "life changed forever" in this moment...
and we see him looking up to the heavens...
37
tears streaming down his face... saying something we can't hear, but
it's a promise... to God...
To save the children of Sudan.
Quiet. Just Sam on this porch all alone, been here for some time,
eyes far off, images in his mind he can't seem to shake.
39
And he steps into the yard... walking along the side of the house...
just moving... trying to shed this feeling like snakeskin...
... and he comes to something on the ground which stops him dead in
his tracks... something we don't see yet... and slowly he reaches
down and picks up...
A LITTLE DOLL. One of Paige's toys. Soiled and faded and left in the
dirt. And we watch him holding this forgotten doll... and what we
see on his face ain't pretty... his world collapsing out from under
him... trying to keep rein on his emotions... a battle he's losing.
Lynn coming out the front door in her nightgown, sees a light on in
a utility shed in the back...
Eight months later and we're looking at a simple, cinder block
church which is under construction. A scattering of pickup trucks
parked at the site and a flurry of activity. WORKMEN pouring cement,
laying sheetrock, etc. And Sam in the middle of this crew, putting
the finishing touches on a timber frame which is about to be raised.
Children at play, laughing, screaming, swinging on swing sets and
digging in a sand pit. And we see Sam off to the side, leaning
against a (new) black Harley, watching Paige playing in the group.
41
VOICE (O.S.)
Sam Childers...
Sam turns to see a BIKER, late 40's, leather vest, standing with his
12 year old DAUGHTER.
SAM
That's me.
The Biker extends his hand, they shake.
BIKER
Hey bro, Ben Hobbes, knew each other long
time ago.
SAM
Yeah, Ben, how you doin?
DAUGHTER
Daddy, I'm gonna go.
BIKER
OK, sweetie...
She runs off.
BIKER (CONT'D)
Goddamn, they grow up quick, don't they?
SAM
Sure do.
BIKER
Hey, nuthin fer nuthin, Sam, but rumor
has it you was puttin up a chapel over
there in Central City.
SAM
That's right. Gonna minister to anybody
who's lookin for The Lord.
BIKER
That's good, man. Maybe you can do
somethin bout your old friend, Donnie.
SAM
What about em?
BIKER
He ain't doin so good, bro. But hey, good
seein ya' man.
42
A torn up house in a shitty part of town, windows spray painted
black. Sam pulls up to the curb on his Harley, gets off, opens one
of the bike's hard cases and pulls out the same SAWED OFF 10 gage
we've seen before... chambers a slug as he moves toward the house...
A bright Sunday morning and we're staring at the cinder block church
which is almost completely finished... the sound of a garage band
coming from inside, playing an unlikely rendition of a spiritual
hymn... and a handful of people, dressed for service, moving up the
cement stairs into...
FULL SCREEN - SEVEN LARGE SHIPPING BOXES RIPPED OPEN
And we see a line of SPLA soldiers (including NINETEEN, MARCO, and
A.J.) sitting in the dirt, pulling on NEW BOOTS, smiling, spit-
polishing them to a high shine.
Sam and Deng watching the soldiers.
DENG
You came all this way to bring us new
boots?
Sam already out of the truck, moving into the bush. Deng
following...
DENG
Sam, wait...
But he's not listening, moving through the scrub to a small
clearing... walking around...
DENG (CONT'D)
It is not safe here.
Sam kneeling down, picking up a handful of red dirt, letting it
trickle through his fingers...
SAM
This is it...
Establishing a busy trading town on the border of Sudan and Uganda.
And we see a small crowd of villagers standing underneath a tarp,
watching a small color TV (the only TV for miles) -- on the screen
we see a black man in a military uniform giving a fiery speech --
this is JOHN GARANG -- one of the good guys -- the founder of the
SPLA.
What we're looking at is the modest beginning of The Angels of East
Africa Children's Orphanage. A cluster of tukuls and 2 or 3
rudimentary wood buildings built on the dirt Sam first let trickle
between his fingers.
And we see life already finding it's place within these bamboo
walls. Acholi WORKERS laying brick on what will eventually become a
schoolhouse and chapel.
And we find Sam with two or three small CHILDREN who are crying for
no apparent reason. He's on his knees, trying his best to soothe
them but he is way out of his depth here.
And now we see Deng in the b.g. approaching with a powerfully built
Ugandan woman in her late 40's.
DENG
(INTRODUCING)
Sam... this is Betty. She is from the
village of Kotido. A few miles from here.
49
SAM
Good to meet you Betty.
Betty, no reaction. Just the incessant crying of the children in the
b.g.
DENG
She is knowing that you need someone to
run the orphanage.
SAM
I'm lookin for somebody who can keep the
place in order. Make sure things is taken
care of when I'm away.
DENG
She can do this.
SAM
She's gonna have to take care of the
children too, make sure they're fed, fix
em when they're sick. Can she do that?
Betty hears this, turns to the crying children and softly says --
BETTY
(ARABIC)
Quiet now.
-- and instantly their crying stops.
SAM
Tell her she's hired.
And we see a handful of SPLA soldiers stationed around the perimeter
of the compound, standing guard. Sam and Deng sitting next to a
lantern by the front gate.
50
SAM
You know what's funny? In English your
name means "darn it."
DENG
What is this `darn it?'
SAM
Deng. It means `shucks.' You know, like
you stub your toe and you go "ahhhhh,
deng!" Get it?
DENG
(DEAD SERIOUS)
This is not funny. In my language, in
Arabic, names are very important. They
tell you everything about a man.
(BECOMING HEATED)
Your name proceeds you wherever you go.
You are Sam. This is how you are known.
In my language this means something.
Sam feeling terrible, realizes he's offended him.
SAM
I'm sorry, buddy. It was just a joke.
Quiet, awkward, just the two of them sitting here quietly for a long
beat. Finally...
SAM (CONT'D)
What does Sam mean in Arabic?
DENG
Small penis.
And Deng smiles brightly. Sam realizing he's been played. And Deng
starts to LAUGH. A deep, guttural, infectious laugh. Sam joining
him, and we sense that at this moment these two have become friends.
And gradually their laughter subsides, and it's quiet again.
SAM
Can I ask you a question?
DENG
Of course.
SAM
You believe in God?
Deng considering this for a beat, and then...
DENG
I was raised to believe there was a God
in heaven.
(MORE)
51
DENG (CONT'D)
But it is impossible to live here, to see
what I have seen, and not turn your back
on him.
BEAT.
SAM
Maybe you'll invite him in again one day.
DENG
I don't think so.
CUT TO:
The heavy stillness of an African summer night. Only the sound of
Kestrel hawks screeching far off in the distance, hunting prey...
and the drone of African Cicadas buzzing all around us.
A few of the SPLA soldiers sitting next to their weapons in the
dark, smoking, tossing beads into a carved wooden trough, playing
the ancient game of Mancala --
SOLDIER #2
(ARABIC)
That was a mistake...
SOLDIER #3
(ARABIC)
Where?
SOLDIER #2
(ARABIC)
Right here... your third "house" is
open...
52
Soldier #3 reacting to his mistake as --
-- WE SEE SHADOWS IN THE DARKNESS... MAYBE 10 OR 12 FIGURES MOVING
SLOWLY THROUGH THE UNDERBRUSH... LRA REBELS... APPROACHING THE
PERIMETER OF THE ORPHANAGE.
The SPLA soldiers oblivious to the advance.
-- Sam rushing out of his tukul -- sees the front gate OBLITERATED
from a grenade blast -- bamboo fence burning -- the death song of
AK47's howling in the darkness --
NEW ANGLE
-- Sam hustling across the compound -- joining Deng and another
soldier behind a makeshift shed --
SAM
How many are there?
DENG
Two squads...
(INDICATING)
There -- and there.
Sam peering around the corner -- sees MUZZLE FLASHES in the
blackness -- maybe 15 or 20 rebels moving through the bush like
specters -- flanking the compound --
SAM
Where are your men?
DENG
I don't know.
Sam looking around, realizing the rest of the SPLA soldiers are
scattered throughout the compound firing randomly into the dark.
SAM
They're gonna pick us off like this!
Sam, split-second decision here -- and he starts to sprint across
the compound to --
53
-- Sam scrambling across the compound with the AK -- moves next to
Deng and pops a mag into the machinegun --
SAM
Get yer men back to the church! That's
our best shot! I'll cover you...
And Sam starts to open up the AK -- laying down a curtain of
suppression fire as Deng shouts to his men --
DENG
(ARABIC)
To the church! --
-- and they start to fall back to the center of the orphanage --
Sam sweeping the AK back and forth, trying to hold off the rebels as
long as he can -- and then --
KABOOOM!!
More of the fence eviscerated by a grenade blast.
REBELS ADVANCING ON THE ORPHANAGE -- BREACHING THE PERIMETER --
Sam becoming overwhelmed in the fight -- firing as he retreats back
into the compound --
Rebels moving through the compound, firing into tukuls and setting
everything on fire.
Rebels swarming around the chapel, but reaching a point where they
can't advance any further --
-- and we see a rebel squat behind a shed and screw an RPG into a
launcher -- he pops up -- levels the launcher at the chapel and --
Krakakakakak!
He's cut down before he's able to fire --
And we see the entire orphanage has been razed to the ground. Betty
and a few of the children picking through the burned out buildings
and torched tukuls, looking for anything salvageable. Deng,
Nineteen, and some of the SPLA soldiers loading the corpses of
rebels into the back of the truck...
... and now we find Sam staring at the brick chapel in the middle of
the compound. The only structure that remains. Everything else --
his entire dream -- in ashes.
And we find Sam sitting at a table along this dusty, crowded street.
His duffelbag on the ground next to him.
SAM
(INTO PHONE)
It's me.
And we see that he's not. This man is empty, alone, defeated.
SAM
They burned it to the ground. All of it.
Ain't nuthin left.
SAM
Nimule...
LYNN'S VOICE (O.S.)
Sam?
SAM
Yeah.
LYNN'S VOICE (O.S.)
Can you hear me?
SAM
I can hear you.
And we watch Sam listening, finding strength in what this woman says
next...
LYNN'S VOICE (O.S.)
God gave you purpose, Sam Childers. Now
stop yer cryin, get off yer butt and
build it again.
BEGIN SEQUENCE. Giving us a sense that many months are passing.
-- Sam and a crew of VILLAGE MEN hauling the charred remnants of
tukuls and burned building out of the compound on their backs.
-- The remainder of the bamboo fence that once surrounded the
orphanage being torn down.
-- Nineteen, Marco, A.J. and a few other SPLA soldiers cutting the
bush away from the edge of the compound with machetes.
SAM
Cut it all down... so they got nowhere to
hide...
-- Sam, Deng and the crew of village men digging post holes around
the perimeter of the orphanage...
VILLAGE MAN 1
(ARABIC)
How far?
DENG
(ARABIC)
All the way around...
-- The men sinking metal beams into the holes with cement, then
surrounding the compound with heavy gage CHAINLINK FENCE.
-- New DORMS being built from brick. An INFIRMARY. A MESS HALL.
SOLDIER'S BARRACKS. And finally, Sam laying the last brick on the
chapel in the center of the compound. Completing it.
Sam following Deng to the center of the compound where we see 5 or 6
camp women (including Betty and Rose) dressed in colorful robes and
headdresses. Maybe 80 children here, quietly sitting in the dirt,
watching the women. Nineteen, Marco, A.J. and the rest of the SPLA
soldiers here too, watching from the side.
SAM
What's goin on?
DENG
The Acholi people were farmers before
they were driven from their ancestral
homeland. Each year they blessed the soil
before a planting.
And now the women begin to move in unison... singing an ancient
Acholi song as one of the older orphan boys beats a small drum in
accompaniment...
DENG (CONT'D)
(TRANSLATING)
They are saying that fire brings strength
and ashes abundance...
The women continuing their dance... moving in a tight circle and
stomping their feet as they sing...
DENG (CONT'D)
(TRANSLATING)
... when the land burns, the next year
the soil produces more...
And now Betty peels away from the group and approaches Sam, talking
to him directly in Arabic...
BETTY
(ARABIC)
The children are your fields...
DENG
(TRANSLATING)
... she says you are a farmer and these
children are your crops...
59
Sam looking to the 80 little orphans watching this from the side...
and now Betty bends down and scoops up a bit of ashen earth and runs
her finger across his forehead, blessing him...
BETTY
(ARABIC)
... and this ground will grow them tall.
DENG
... and this ground is richer now and
they will grow stronger because of it.
OFF SAM standing here with his ashen face, staring at these people
in front of him -- his African family.
Sam coming out fast, sees soldiers pulling open the front gate as
THREE pickup trucks speed into the compound -- SPLA military trucks -
- skidding to a stop.
Sam rushing over as soldiers help two YOUNG BOYS out of one of the
trucks. Both are around 5 years old, injured and crying. And then a
third child is lifted out in a makeshift stretcher -- this is ALICE -
- 10 years old -- her broken body limp and bleeding profusely --
mumbling something to herself in Arabic over-and-over again --
Sam coming out of the infirmary and finding Deng here with a few of
the SPLA soldiers who brought the children.
SAM
Where did they find em?
DENG
Their village was hit out Adjumani.
Off Sam, hearing this, we...
TIME DISSOLVE TO:
And we see Sam and Deng sitting outside the infirmary, exhausted,
been here all night waiting. And now the door opens and Betty comes
out. She looks down at them and simply shakes her head...
And we know Alice is dead.
And it looks like a grenade has gone off inside Sam. And suddenly he
grabs an AK and gets up, seething, walks off...
DENG
Sam...
... Sam walking fast through the compound... Deng following...
DENG
Where are you going?
SAM
Adjumani.
DENG
Sam, please wait...
SAM
I ain't waitin. You wanna see what waitin
gets ya? Take a look in that buildin over
there...
Sam reaching the SUV and starting to gear up...
61
FADE UP the plaintive wail of an Acholi WAR SONG... haunting...
ethereal... and then a chorus of voices rising up... taking us to...
We see two LRA VEHICLES approaching in the distance... a LEAD JEEP
and a PICKUP TRUCK behind it...
-- and we see A.J. behind the .30 cal -- opening it up --
BBRAAAAAAPPP! -- BBRAAAAAPPP! -- blasting the engine compartment of
the truck, trying to disable it --
62
-- the pickup truck reversing out of the black smoke -- OUT OF
CONTROL -- going off the road into a ditch -- WILLIAM and the other
boys bailing out of the flatbed -- TWO ADULT REBELS piling out of
the cab -- scrambling for cover behind the truck.
Sam, Deng, A.J. and the others hustling through the smoke and
finding cover. From Sam's vantage point he sees rebels hiding
behind the disabled truck for cover -- shooting back -- a withering
firefight -- the big .30 cal ROARING offscreen but the truck is
protecting the rebels -- no clear shot --
William and the other child soldiers here with two ADULT REBELS --
crouched behind the truck for cover -- the ADULT REBELS returning
fire, but the children aren't moving, scared shitless.
William peers around the truck and sees Sam fifty yards away, turns
to the boys next to him...
WILLIAM
(ARABIC)
It's the white preacher!
The other boys reacting, this means something to them. And now one
of the ADULT REBEL turns to the children...
ADULT REBEL
STAND UP AND FIGHT!!!
And he pops up and returns fire, but the boys don't move.
MARCO running through the smoke toward Sam. He hits the ground and
starts to screw an RPG into his launcher... he wants to hit the
transport truck, but Sam shakes his head, waves him off...
SAM
No shot! There are children behind the
truck!
Marco hears this, ditches the RPG and picks up his AK.
SAM (CONT'D)
Cover me!
Marco laying down suppression fire as Sam sprints across the road --
advancing on the transport truck -- firing his AK from the hip --
bullets zinging past him -- he dives behind a berm and finds himself
next to Deng. Neither man says a word as they jam fresh mags into
their AK's, gunfire erupting all around them.
63
The adult rebels continue fighting -- alternately popping up from
behind the truck and returning fire. The ADULT REBEL realizing that
William and the other boys still aren't fighting --
ADULT REBEL
Fight you cowards!!!
But William and the other boys don't move, and the Adult Rebel keeps
shooting until his mag clicks empty. He looks around and sees an RPG
LAUNCHER on the ground, picks it up, arms it --
Sam and Deng behind the berm. Sam peers over just as GUNFIRE misses
him by inches. He drops back.
DENG
Why don't you just go home?
SAM
What?
DENG
This is not your war.
SAM
You leavin?
Deng shakes his head --
SAM (CONT'D)
Well then, I ain't leavin neither...
Sam chambers a round, pivots around the berm as --
-- the Adult Rebel stands up with the RPG -- fires! -- at the same
instant William shoots him in the head -- he jerks -- WOOOOOSH! --
the missile launching at a bad angle as --
SAM COMES OUT FROM BEHIND THE BERM
RPG streaking directly at him -- hitting the ground short --
BA-WHOOOM! --
AND OUR VISION EXPLODES TO WHITE
For a long beat... only silence... and then slowly the white begins
to fade... and we see Sam flat on his back... eyes blinking open...
shell-shocked... staring up at blue sky... and then a shadow coming
over him... someone stepping into his POV...
64
it's William, hands held open in surrender, staring curiously at
this strange white man laying in the dirt... and now Deng and Marco
appear next to Sam and help him to his feet.
And we see the battle is over. The remaining child soldiers slowly
emerging from behind the LRA truck... laying down their weapons and
walking toward Sam... joining William... staring at this white man
in front of them...
... William reaches into his pocket and...
... Deng and Marco REACT -- lifting their AK's -- "Don't move! Don't
move!" -- but the boy only pulls out a FADED PHOTOGRAPH... the one
he grabbed just before his capture... a picture of him and his older
brother... standing next to each other smiling.
WILLIAM
(ARABIC)
Have you seen my brother?
A soldier cuts off the generator and the compound goes black.
A SLOW DISSOLVE... life springing up in the camp... daylight
breaking... a routine seen here... Betty, Rose and the other camp
women arriving at the orphanage... cooking fires being lit...
soldiers drinking cups of strong coffee, warming themselves after a
long night...
... and Sam coming out of his tukul carrying his duffle bag...
discovering William curled up next to his door, sleeping on a mat in
the dirt... been there all night. William stirring awake, seeing Sam
above him and scrambling to his feet.
SAM
Mornin, buddy.
William, no response. Just staring up at him.
SAM (CONT'D)
Ain't you gonna say nuthin?
William, nothing.
SAM (CONT'D)
Ok then.
And Sam walks across the compound followed by William a few paces
behind... and he reaches Deng, Betty, Nineteen, and a few of the
other volunteers waiting by the truck...
66
DENG
(MEANING WILLIAM)
Looks like you've got yourself a
bodyguard.
SAM
Guess I do.
Sam tosses his bag into the back, says goodbye to everyone...
SAM (CONT'D)
Take care of things while I'm gone, ok?
DENG
I will, Preacher.
They shake hands and Sam gets into the truck... and we see William
already here, sitting in the backseat.
SAM
You can't come with me, buddy.
DENG
(to William, Arabic)
Get out of there.
But William isn't moving...
DENG (CONT'D)
(ARABIC)
Come on! -- out! --
... and finally Deng reaches in and grabs him... tries to pull him
out but he fights back... yelling as Deng drags him out of the
truck...
Front door opening fast and Lynn and Paige coming out, followed by
Sam, pushing them along...
LYNN
Sam...
73
PAIGE
Why we leavin so soon?
Shannon appearing in the doorway in the b.g., calling after...
SHANNON
Everything alright?...
Lynn turning to respond, but Sam keeps her moving forward, down the
driveway, past the line of parked BMW's and Mercedes to their truck
at the curb...
SAM
Get in the car.
LYNN
What's wrong?
As they load into the truck...
SAM
Sonuvabitch is cryin pour-mouth to me and
he's livin in the damn Taj Mahal...
LYNN
Sam...
SAM
I asked him for five-thousand dollars to
feed a buncha motherless babies and you
know what he gave me?
(taking out the check,
wadding it up)
Hundred and fifty bucks. That's it.
Handed it to me like it was gold
bouillon! Sonuvabitch spent more than
that on salsa for his party.
Sam coming out followed by the Shop Owner...
SHOP OWNER
... I'm sorry, twenty-five hundred is the
best I can do for them gun.
REVERSE to see Lynn's car parked at the curb, Sam pointing to it...
SAM
Throw in the car for five.
The Shop Owner considering, as we go...
Windy, pissing rain. And we see Sam walking up this rural road,
hands in his pockets, head down... the only human for miles...
trudging through this shitstorm completely alone.
CUT TO:
And we see Sam with a group of men working in the sweltering heat...
laying brick... adding another room to the children's dorm...
... and he squints into the distance, sees a cloud of dust on the
horizon, cars coming closer.
Seven or eight heavily armed vehicles coming through the gate. Maybe
20 or 30 SPLA soldiers guarding a black SUBURBAN in the middle of
this motorcade. Nineteen waving his hand, yelling as the cars pass --
NINETEEN
(ARABIC)
It's Garang! -- It's Garang! --
Palpable excitement ripples through the compound... Sam's soldiers
grabbing their weapons and forming a ragged line near the Suburban
as it stops...
75
... the back door to the Suburban opens and a black man, dressed in
shirtsleeves and slacks, steps out. The same man we saw giving the
fiery speech on the little outdoor TV in Nimule earlier -- JOHN
GARANG.
Sam turns to Deng --
SAM
Who's this guy?
DENG
That's our leader.
SAM
John Garang?
Deng nods as we go...
Sam and Garang walking through the middle of camp, trailed by a
squad of SPLA bodyguards and camp children...
GARANG
They call you Preacher. Is this what I
should call you?
SAM
Sam is fine.
GARANG
I hear what you have done for the SPLA
and I am grateful.
SAM
We can thank God for his blessins.
GARANG
Yes, we can. How many children do you
look after, Sam?
SAM
Couple hundred with us here. Feed another
thousand a day from nearby villages.
Anyone who shows up hungry gets a meal.
And they continue through the camp. A few of the children running up
to Garang, touching the cuff of his shirt, then sprinting away...
GARANG
What you are doing is noble, but too
dangerous. I must advise you to stop
risking your life in our struggle.
76
SAM
Until someone starts fightin for these
children, I'm the one that's gonna do it.
GARANG
You are stubborn, aren't you?
SAM
As a mule.
Garang smiling, an instant affinity for this man.
GARANG
You and I come from very different
worlds, but we are not so dissimilar.
And another child runs up to Garang, touching him, and then sprints
away giggling...
GARANG (CONT'D)
I founded the SPLA in order to fight for
the future of Sudan because nobody else
would. We fight for freedom from the
government in Khartoum, for the right to
vote, and for the right to worship any
god one may choose.
More children running up... Garang touching their heads...
GARANG (CONT'D)
But most important to me is our struggle
for the children. Their laughter has been
lost to this country for far too long.
(BEAT)
There are Peace Talks scheduled for the
end of August in Naivashu. I'd like you
to come as my guest.
SAM
Talkin bout peace in a room somewhere is
a waste of time. You gotta go out and
make it.
GARANG
You are correct, but we must fight them
at every level. Part of my battle is
waged in those rooms. We must talk of
peace, but keep our rifles ready for war.
Sam turning to him, coming to an understanding here. Realizing that
both of them are warriors in the same fight.
GARANG (CONT'D)
Maybe together you and I can make Sudan
free once again.
77
And now we see they have arrived at the brick chapel in the middle
of the compound. Garang turning to him, eyes suddenly becoming
dark...
GARANG (CONT'D)
There is a cost for freedom, Sam. A price
for the future of these people. Some pay
with their lives, others pay in different
ways.
(BEAT)
My only hope is that your cost is not too
great.
AND SUDDENLY WE'RE SOMEPLACE FAR AWAY... ANOTHER WORLD... THE
SILHOUETTES OF ANIMALS DANCING ON A DARK CEILING... PROJECTED FROM A
CHILD'S NIGHTLIGHT... WE ARE...
And we see Sam, Betty and Rose leading a group of children, their
hands covering their eyes so they can't see, into a clearing behind
one of the dorms.
SAM
Keep em closed! A little bit more!
BETTY
(ARABIC)
Keep your eyes closed.
ROSE
(stern, Arabic)
Michael! Cover your eyes! No peeking!
SAM
... keep comin'...
The children inching forward, following his voice, until...
SAM (CONT'D)
Ok, stop! Open your eyes!
BETTY
(ARABIC)
Open your eyes!
And we see a hundred little eyes popping open, staring at something
off screen, confused for a split second at what they're looking at.
REVERSE to see a PLAYGROUND: two or three battered swingsets, a few
see-saws, and a jungle gym soldered out of metal pipe.
And the kids SPRINTING for it, climbing all over the jungle gym like
ants... hitting the swing-sets... and then we hear it... something
we realize we haven't heard in this place before... the sound of
laughter... children losing themselves in play. Innocence flooding
back.
79
And now we see Nineteen, A.J. and two other SPLA soldiers standing
around a BUNNY BOUNCER... staring at it quizzically... talking in
Arabic, trying to decide what this thing is... and then A.J., the
bravest, slings his AK onto his back and carefully straddles the
bouncer... pulling up his long legs and resting his feet on the
pegs...
And he begins to bob back and forth... holding onto the bunny's ears
with his big hands... the other soldiers starting to laugh as he
bobs faster... and then we see A.J's smile... a million watt smile
on this guy... the first time he's played like this since he was a
boy.
Hours later and we see Sam pushing a couple of the smaller children
on the swingset. Deng approaches...
DENG
Some of the child soldiers say there is a
bounty on your life. That Kony is
offering money for your nose and ears.
Sam, no reaction, just keeps swinging the children...
DENG (CONT'D)
I'd like to assign a few more men to you
during the day.
SAM
He ain't the first old-boy who wanted to
see my head hanging on his wall. Keep yer
soldiers where they're needed. I can take
care of myself.
Deng clearly worried for his friend, but doesn't press the issue.
And now Sam notices William off from the group, sitting on the
ground by himself, not playing.
SAM (CONT'D)
He said anything yet?
DENG
All we know is that his family was killed
and that he and his brother were taken
into the LRA.
SAM
Where's the brother?
DENG
Nobody knows.
NEW ANGLE
Sam approaching William, kneeling down next to him.
80
SAM
Hey buddy, you don't wanna play with the
other kids?
William, no response.
SAM (CONT'D)
You know sometimes it helps to tell
somebody what you got locked up inside,
know what I mean?
William, no reaction whatsoever. Something dawning on Sam in this
moment...
SAM (CONT'D)
You have no idea what I'm sayin, do you?
William just stares back at him and Sam realizes he doesn't speak
English. And they both just sit here for a moment, silent, staring
at the children playing on the playground. And then Sam, feeling the
need to unburden himself, begins to talk...
SAM (CONT'D)
I done a lotta things I ain't proud of.
Hurt a lotta people. Truth is, helpin you
kids is about the only good thing I ever
done in this life.
William watching him quietly.
SAM (CONT'D)
But I'm scared. Scared one day I'll close
my eyes to all this and make it somebody
else's problem.
(BEAT)
Just like everybody else in this world.
And he stops and it's silent between them again. William just
sitting there quietly. And Sam looks up to the sky... feeling his
life washing over him... his burden... this fear.
And we see the SUV picking it's way down the rocky slope... reaching
the dry riverbed below and moving closer to the children...
... and the terrain becomes inaccessible and the SUV stops. Unable
to go any further. Sam and the others getting out of the truck and
we see two children hiding behind a bush 50 yards away. Sam
WHISTLING to the kids, but they draw back. Too scared to move.
SAM
Deng, tell camp we're comin back with
two. A.J., Nineteen -- go get them kids.
A.J. and Nineteen move off as Sam pops the rear hatch on the SUV and
pulls out a MEDICAL BAG.
A.J. and Nineteen moving over rocks toward the children, calling out
to them in Arabic -- "Come out, we won't hurt you." -- but they
don't move...
... and finally they reach the kids and we see it's two boys (6
years old), kneeling in the dirt, terrified...
A.J.
(ARABIC)
Don't be scared.
He smiles, reaches for one of the boys -- and --
-- A SHOT RINGS OUT!
-- A BULLET hits A.J. in the neck, killing him instantly.
Nineteen dives behind a boulder for cover.
Sam, Deng, and Marco scramble behind the SUV. A moment before we
hear Nineteen YELLING offscreen.
82
SAM
What's he sayin?
DENG
A.J. is dead.
SAM
Shit.
(BEAT)
Tell him to stay where he is. Don't move.
DENG
(yelling to Nineteen, Arabic)
Don't move!
SAM
Ask him if he saw the shooter.
DENG
(yelling to Nineteen, Arabic)
Did you see him?!
Nineteen responds.
DENG (CONT'D)
He did not see.
SNIPER POV -- and we see A.J.'s lifeless body lying by the
children... and the SUV... and then part of Sam's head peering from
behind the truck --
Sam looking through binocs as --
-- A SHOT RINGS OUT! -- hitting the windshield right next to his
head, and he drops behind the truck.
SAM
You got `em?
DENG
Yes. He's on the ridge... just below that
outcropping.
SAM
Can you reach the Browning?
Deng opening the rear door and reaching inside the truck... pulling
out a long barrel HUNTING RIFLE as...
-- A SHOT RINGS OUT!
The bullet hitting the SUV, narrowly missing Deng. He slides the
HUNTING RIFLE to Sam.
83
SAM (CONT'D)
Need you boys to cover me on three,
alright? Put everything you got into that
rock up there.
SNIPER POV -- locked on the SUV when suddenly -- Deng and Marco
pivot around the truck and start firing -- bullets popping all
around and the sniper drops for cover as --
-- Sam SPRINTS over the rocks and dives into a shallow ditch out of
sight. Deng and Marco stop firing and drop back behind the SUV.
SNIPER POV -- slowly pops up from behind the rocks after the
shooting stops. And we realize he didn't see Sam change positions.
Sam rolling onto his stomach and slowly sliding the barrel of the
rifle between two rocks... then seeing a sliver of the SNIPER hidden
on the ridge.
SNIPER POV -- still locked on the SUV, waiting for a clear shot.
Sam putting a bead on the Sniper, but at this range the shot is
going to take instinct. Sam turns his head away from the rifle and
exhales -- controls his breathing -- as we go --
SNIPER POV -- trained on the SUV... and then we see a FLASH from the
right side of the screen... and a delayed POP!...
CRACKKK! -- THE SNIPER DROPS
Killed instantly.
Deng looking through binocs at the ridge --
DENG
(calling out to Sam)
I think you got him!
Sam, Deng, and Marco moving toward the children, weapons drawn,
scanning the area in all directions. Deng is the first one to reach
the boys who are huddled on the ground, shaking from fear...
DENG
(ARABIC)
It is ok. You can get up now.
84
But the boys don't move... and Deng reaches down, pulls them to
their feet and we see that their ankles are chained to a post which
has been buried in the ground.
DENG (CONT'D)
Sam.
Sam joins Deng, sees the chains.
DENG (CONT'D)
LRA wanted us here.
Sam realizing that these children were used as bait -- for him.
We're at the top of the ravine now and we see Sam and the others
moving toward the location of the SNIPER...
... and Sam is the first to reach the body... laying on the ground
face down... a pool of blood soaking the dirt underneath... and he
rolls the body onto it's back and we see it's just a kid -- no older
than 15 years old.
We're hit by a crush of people, a thousand black faces moving past
us and all the noise and confusion of this busy border town. And we
find Sam, Deng, and Nineteen here loading supplies into the back of
the SUV.
VOICE (O.S.)
They talk about you...
Sam turning to find Agnete, the aid worker, approaching him.
86
AGNETE
In the camps. The children. They say
there is a white preacher who hunts the
LRA. This place does not need more
killing, Mr. Childers.
SAM
I'm just tryin to help these people. Same
as you.
AGNETE
War upon war does not fix what is broken
here. The history of this country is
filled with righteous killers. That is
how it always begins, with men thinking
they are killing for the right reasons.
SAM
I got a 200 kids who are gonna sleep safe
tonight and wake up tomorrow mornin to a
bowl of hot food. Right or not, that's
all the reason I need.
AGNETE
And what about the rumors I have heard
about you supplying weapons to the SPLA?
Sam turning to her, face-to-face, starting to get pissed...
SAM
You fight the evil in this place your
way, I'll fight it mine.
AGNETE
Do not delude yourself, Mr. Childers.
You're a mercenary, not a humanitarian.
Sam, finished with this conversation, slams the lift-gate closed on
the truck and starts to climb in...
AGNETE (CONT'D)
They say you are doing good. That you
have special powers. That you are
protected by angels and cannot be killed
by bullets.
Sam looking at her and there's a warning in what she says next...
about violence corrupting men... consuming them...
AGNETE (CONT'D)
They said the same thing about Kony in
the beginning.
87
Sam sitting outside his tukul alone, tearing open an airmail package
and pulling out another VIDEOCASSETTE, slides it into his
videocamera, hits play --
ON THE SMALL SCREEN we see a school production... children dressed
in costumes shuffling across the stage... lines being spoken by
rote...and then the awkward entrance of Paige speaking her lines...
but instead of finding joy in this sweet moment he finds
heartache... the distance from his family... from their innocence...
simply too great to bear in this moment...
... and then he hears giggling... and he realizes two young orphan
BOYS have snuck up behind him and are looking at the screen over his
shoulder... and Sam holds it up so they can see better and now more
children gather around -- maybe 10 or 15 kids -- pointing at the
small screen... giggling and chatting in Arabic...
ORPHAN #1
(ARABIC)
Look at their shoes...
ORPHAN #2
(ARABIC)
They look silly...
ORPHAN #1
(ARABIC)
This is how Americans dance?
ORPHAN #2
(ARABIC)
Their dancing is terrible!
The children laughing hysterically... and for an instant Sam is
swept out of his melancholy by their sweet enjoyment...
... and then Sam sees Deng and Nineteen approaching quickly...
SAM
What's goin on?
DENG
An LRA convoy has moved north over the
border. They're heading for Ed Duim.
SAM
That's where they sell em on the black
market, ain't it?
A moonless night... and we see headlights piercing this blackness...
bouncing down a singletrack road... we are...
88
Rebels jumping out of their disabled trucks -- Sam and his men
flanking them -- blasting one of the trucks until the engine bursts
into flames -- cutting down the rebels before they even knew what
hit them. And then there's a great stillness. The quiet of death...
89
... Sam coming out of the blackness with his AK leveled... moving
toward the flaming wreckage of the caravan... Deng, Nineteen, and
Marco moving to each rebel body... making sure they're dead.
NINETEEN
Clear!
Sam and Deng moving to the back of the Transport Truck...
SAM
Bring me a flashlight.
Marco hustling up with a spotlight -- Sam switching it on as Deng
rips the canvas back and we see --
TWENTY THREE CHILDREN IN THE BACK OF THIS TRANSPORT TRUCK
Boys and girls... none of them older than twelve... tied together
with rope... emaciated... terrified... in very bad shape.
MARCO
(ARABIC)
The front axle is broken... this truck
won't drive.
SAM
What'd he say?
DENG
The truck is too damaged to move.
(meaning the children)
We don't have room for them all,
Preacher.
The implication of this hitting Sam, his mind reeling, turning to
Nineteen...
SAM
Bring our truck up here and shine them
lights on us.
(TO DENG)
Pull everyone of them kids outta there.
DENG
(to soldiers, Arabic)
Bring the children out...
Deng and Marco helping the children out... one-by-one... untying
them...
SAM
Put em right here... real easy...
DENG
(ARABIC)
Put them together here... gently...
90
And now Nineteen pulls up in the SUV, lighting up the children.
DENG (CONT'D)
What are you doing?
SAM
We're takin the ones that ain't gonna
make it through the night. Come back for
the others later.
And Sam moves to the first child in the group -- a little girl --
reaching out to her but she pulls back.
SAM (CONT'D)
Tell her I'm not gonna hurt her.
DENG
(ARABIC)
It's ok... he will not hurt you...
And slowly the little girl steps forward... and Sam gently unbuttons
her shirt and begins to examine her little body... turning her
around in the harsh light of the SUV's headlamps... and he finds
five infected gashes on her back... whip wounds... already turning
gangrene... and he gently pushes her toward Deng...
SAM
Put her in the truck.
And Sam continues with the group... assessing each child's health...
tenderly running his hands over their broken, starved bodies...
somehow calculating which ones are worse off and pulling them out of
line...
... and he reaches the last child and we see that the SUV is now
PACKED with children... huddled into every available corner... 10
children in total. There's no more room.
SAM (CONT'D)
Tell em we're comin back.
Deng hesitating, knows the reaction he's going to get...
SAM (CONT'D)
Tell em!
DENG
(ARABIC)
We will be back for you!
The children become hysterical, crying, running at Sam and grabbing
for him, begging to be taken.
91
SAM
Let's go!
(to the children, holding up
TWO FINGERS)
Two hours... I'll be back in two hours...
Sam, Deng, and the others loading into the SUV... some of them
climbing onto the roof... the only available space... the remaining
children clamoring around the truck as it begins to pull away...
SAM (CONT'D)
Tell em to hide. Don't come out til they
see my face...
Deng yelling this to the children as they drive off...
DENG
(ARABIC)
Hide until we return!
... the faint cries of the children slowly fading as they speed into
the darkness.
A red sun breaking the horizon. It's ONE HOUR LATER and we see the
SUV blasting through the front gate of the compound and skidding to
a stop -- DOORS POPPING OPEN -- SOLDIERS JUMPING OFF THE ROOF --
Betty and the other camp women already pulling the children out of
the truck... ushering them into the infirmary...
Sam yelling at another soldier as he walks across the courtyard --
SAM
Gas it up! We're leavin here in five!
The scene of the ambush the night before. Burned out pickup trucks
and dead LRA rebels strewn in the dirt. Sam's SUV arriving and he's
the first one out... whistling for the children but they're nowhere
to be seen.
And now we realize that the column of smoke isn't coming from the
bombed-out LRA trucks -- it's coming from behind them. Sam moving
around the back of the TRANSPORT TRUCK to see --
92
THIRTEEN LITTLE BODIES STACKED ON TOP OF EACH OTHER
The children Sam left behind.
Burned alive by the LRA an hour earlier.
Sam just standing here, staring at this smoldering pile of children.
Starting to go someplace very dark. And as he puts it, most of him
died in the bush this morning too.
CUT TO:
It's raining and we see Sam sitting on a bench waiting, staring o.s.
at a SKYCAB TROLLEY. Two men working through a pile of BLACK GOLF
BAGS, heaped on top of each other like bodies, tossing them one-by-
one into the back of the trolley...
VOICE (O.S.)
Sam!
He looking up as Donnie gets out of his car, smiling.
DONNIE
Sorry I'm late. Sixteen was all jammed
up...
Donnie is strung out, but Sam is too deep in his own shit to see it.
DONNIE (CONT'D)
Welcome home, buddy.
The motorcade pulling to a stop. Garang and other GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS getting out and making their way to a waiting HELICOPTER.
SAM (V.O.)
... SOLDIERS WILLING TO GO FORTH AND
SHOUT HIS NAME LIKE MEN OF WAR!...
Garang and the others loading into the helicopter, locking doors.
Propellers starting to rotate.
96
SAM (V.O.)
... WILLING TO FIGHT TO THEIR LAST
BREATH...
The helicopter lifting off the ground, ascending into the cloudless
sky until it's just a speck in the limitless blue...
SAM (V.O.)
And only then will their hearts beat no
more... and they will be turned to dust.
Sam released, coming out a door and we see Lynn's car parked in the
parking lot, engine idling.
101
Lynn behind the wheel as Sam comes around the passenger door and
gets in. And the two of them just sit here for a long beat, until...
LYNN
You're gonna sit there and you're gonna
lemme talk.
BEAT. Sam says nothing.
LYNN (CONT'D)
I've always believed in you. I trusted
you, trusted the Lord, and did what I
could so you could follow your dream.
(BEAT)
But I ain't willin to lose you to what
you're doin over there. Ain't gonna just
stand by and watch you get swallowed up
by it.
She looks to him and we see she has tears in her eyes...
LYNN (CONT'D)
I know you're all them kids got, but
you're all we got too. Paige needs her
father. I need my husband.
Eastern White Pine wrapped in early morning fog. Hazy. Floating like
a dream. And then the sound of WOOD SPLINTERING... and we find Sam
alone in this vapor cutting logs with an axe. Sweating despite the
chill in the air...
... and then a voice from somewhere far off. Sam stopping, looking
into the haze as a figure materializes... coming toward him calling
his name... at first it looks like Donnie... but then we see it's
Lynn...
And when she reaches him her look tells us something terrible has
happened.
CUT TO:
Lynn getting out of the car, approaching some of the men...
LYNN
S'cuse me, what are you doing?
MOVER
Loadin up...
And she makes her way into...
Sam moving toward the house. Lynn comes out of the barn after him...
LYNN
(CALLING AFTER)
Sam!
But he's not stopping. He reaches the house...
And we see Sam moving across this crowded tarmac. Disconnected. A
bit frightening. And he's greeted by Deng.
DENG
Welcome back.
But Sam says nothing, and Deng sees that his eyes are deserted.
Inevitable. And Sam moves past him without saying a word.
A convoy of 2 OR 3 AID RELIEF TRUCKS coming down this dirt road. And
we see Agnete here with a DRIVER in the first truck as they drive
onto a NARROW BRIDGE -- and just before they reach the other side --
A PICKUP TRUCK filled with heavily armed LRA REBELS pulls in front
of them, cutting them off.
AGNETE
STOP THE TRUCK! -- STOP!! --
107
The truck grinding to a halt. The driver becoming terrified, trying
to jam the truck into reverse --
AGNETE (CONT'D)
No, no, no! -- don't go back --
DRIVER
WE ARE GOING TO DIE! -- THEY WILL KILL
US!
AGNETE
You move and they'll shoot! -- calm down!
-- I will talk to them.
Agnete climbing out of the truck as we go --
Rebels jumping out of the pickup truck and moving up the bridge as
Agnete approaches -- holding up her hands --
AGNETE
It's ok -- we are a relief convoy --
Agnete and the LRA LEADER meet in the middle of the bridge --
AGNETE (CONT'D)
We have only medical supplies -- non-
MILITARY --
And suddenly the LRA LEADER slams her in the gut with the butt of
his rifle and she collapses. The other Rebels swarm all over the
convoy, pulling out AID WORKERS and DRIVERS, forcing them onto their
knees in a group.
ADULT REBEL #3
Get on your knees!... Get down!...
DRIVER
PLEASE DON'T KILL US!
ADULT REBEL #4
(ARABIC)
On your knees or we will take your legs!
Everyone terrified -- some of them sobbing -- Agnete looking up,
trying to talk to the LRA LEADER--
AGNETE
We are only a relief convoy --
LRA LEADER
Shut your mouth!
108
-- and he SLAMS her in the face with the butt of his rifle and she
goes down hard... and he rests the barrel of his rifle on the back
of her head... he's going to shoot her -- and --
KAK! KAK! KAK!
His chest EXPLODES! -- three bursts from behind -- the other rebels
spinning toward the gunshots as --
KRATAKRATAKRATAKRAK!!!
A firestorm of lead -- Sam, Deng, and the rest of his team coming
onto the bridge shooting -- rebels scrambling for cover but it's too
late -- dropping as they try and sprint away -- and in an instant
it's all over.
Agnete sees Sam, rushes toward him, but when he looks at her she
freezes. He is completely unrecognizable to her in this moment -- a
killer's thousand-yard stare -- barely human -- more like a machine
than a man.
And he moves past her down the bridge, to the LRA LEADER on the
ground who is still alive. And he puts the barrel of his rifle
against the rebel's head and...
BOOOOM!
He's dead. Just like that. And he continues walking up the bridge.
And we see Agnete, Deng and the other soldiers having just witnessed
this.
Sam sitting alone, lost to the world around him. Deng approaches.
Neither one acknowledging the other for a long beat until...
DENG
Do you hear that, Preacher?
SAM
What?
DENG
There is no more laughter. The children
do not play here anymore. They are scared
once again.
(BEAT)
But now they are scared of you.
Sam, no response.
DENG (CONT'D)
The men do not trust you any longer to
lead them into battle. They say you have
a wish to die.
(BEAT)
I am worried about my friend. I want to
help him.
SAM
I don't need your help.
And Sam turns away. After a beat Deng walks off, leaving him alone
once again.
And we see the soldiers at their posts... Betty and the other Camp
Women cleaning clothes and preparing food... and we see most of the
children loitering around a tree in the shade, sullen, not playing
on the playground.
And then we see Sam coming into the courtyard kicking a soccer
ball... some of the children see him and point... and slowly the
entire camp begins to notice Sam kicking the soccer ball awkwardly
by himself out in the open... Betty and the other women stopping
their chores and watching him, speaking to one another in Arabic...
Deng and the other soldiers staring as Sam pops the ball into the
air and bounces it off his head...
... and now a couple of the smaller kids sprint for him and he kicks
them the ball... and slowly the rest of the children join in the
fun... kicking the ball back and forth... an impromptu soccer
game... and then we hear LAUGHTER again... joy flooding back into
this place.
Deng watching with a big smile as this white man dances around these
little children... a Pied Piper of joy... playing in the dirt.
And we see William approach a knot of soldiers standing by the front
gate smoking cigarettes...
WILLIAM
Excuse me...
SPLA SOLDIER #3
What is it?
WILLIAM
Is it true an LRA commander was captured
last night?
Soldiers nodding their heads "yes."
WILLIAM (CONT'D)
Where is he being held?
SPLA SOLDIER #3
At the army base in Kisoro.
WILLIAM
Are you going there?
113
SPLA SOLDIER #3
Yes.
WILLIAM
Can I ride with you?
SPLA SOLDIER #3
Why do you want to go to Kisoro?
WILLIAM
I want to ask the commander something.
SPLA SOLDIER #3
No, you cannot ride with us. Wait till
tomorrow and go with the women on the
bus.
And the soldiers turn their backs on William and he slinks away.
We see a line of women along the riverbank in their colorful
dresses... scrubbing pans and washing clothes... singing an ancient
African spiritual as they work... the sun dropping pale red on the
horizon...
And we see Sam here too... alone with himself... sitting at the
river's edge, watching the water rolling gently past... listening to
the soft serenade of the women... the beauty of it all...
... and then he gets up and walks into the river... and he kneels
down so that water reaches his waist (reminiscent of his first
baptism in scene #35)... and now the women on the riverbank stop
their work, watching him as he closes his eyes and gently leans
back... submitting to the water... and when he comes up again we see
in his eyes that his soul has been saved in this simple act.
And the women begin to shout their praise from the riverbank as we
go...
William at the edge of the compound... looking over his shoulder to
make sure nobody is watching him... and then quickly slipping under
the fence and he's gone...
William walking through the dry scrub alone... already a couple
miles deep in the bush... the sun starting to set... light waning...
William starting to get nervous, picking up his pace...
114
AND THEN THE SOUND OF MEN
A squad of LRA rebels coming through the scrub... William hiding
under a bush, terrified... the men coming closer... no idea if they
saw him or not... his mind racing... voices getting louder...
starting to hyper-ventilate from the fear -- and --
WILLIAM BOLTS
Sprinting through the bush -- running for his life -- rebels see him
-- yelling for him to stop -- chasing him down -- shooting their
rifles into the air and he hits the ground in the fetal position --
too terrified to continue -- eyes clamped shut as 4 or 5 rebels
surround him -- guns pointed at his head -- caught.
Deng coming up to Sam...
DENG
Some of the soldiers said he was asking
about the commander that is being held at
Kismoro.
Sam closing his eyes, knows instantly what William has done.
SAM
Get em on the phone, see if he's shown up
at the base yet.
William shoved through the bush... moving deeper into this rebel
encampment... dark and otherworldly... figures moving around camp
fires... laughing... men with little girls... their child wives...
with pregnant bellies... and incongruously the sound of American rap
music coming from a jambox somewhere.
The overriding sense we get from this place is one of `insanity.'
115
And William is dragged to a clearing next to a grouping of tents and
he's kicked to the dirt... two other soldiers pinning him to the
ground as a third grabs his feet and pulls off his shoes... William
YELLING and now a handful of other LRA soldiers start to gather
around... most of them only a few years older than him... watching
as his ankles are bound together and placed on a wooden block...
... and now another soldier steps forward with an AXE... and the
crowd whips into bloodlust... shouting... cheering...
AND THE SOLDIER LIFTS THE AXE INTO THE AIR --
WILLIAM WRITHING ON THE GROUND BUT CAN'T GET FREE --
AND THE SOLDIER STARTS TO BRING THE BLADE DOWN -- AND --
VOICE (O.S.)
(ARABIC)
Stop!
The soldier freezes -- everyone turning as an LRA COMMANDER comes
through the crowd -- takes the axe from the soldier --
SOLDIER
He ran from us.
COMMANDER
He is worth nothing with no feet. Put him
with the others until tomorrow.
Deng hustling up to Sam... shaking his head...
DENG
They have not see the boy.
SAM
Ok. Get Nineteen and Marco -- we're gonna
go look for him.
And we see William in a bamboo cell in the center of camp... and we
see other children here... in various stages of fear and
suffering... some of them completely naked... shivering in the cool
air... others catatonic, probably doped up or too battered to move.
Pale yellow sun breaking and we see William and a line of 10 or 12
other children -- shackled in iron -- being loaded into the back of
a TRANSPORT TRUCK.
A convoy of 4 or 5 LRA trucks barreling down this dirt track. And we
see lots of rebels standing up in the back of these trucks, cradling
heavy weapons, alert -- and suddenly we see in the distance --
TWO ROOSTER-TAILS OF DUST COMING AT US
From different angles -- converging on the LRA convoy -- the Rebels
see them and point -- they know what's coming and they begin to
prepare for war --
THE ROOSTER-TAILS
Getting closer -- and then we see them --
SAM'S TWO TRUCKS
Bouncing over the terrain towards us -- coming fast -- and then --
WOOOOSH!
An RPG streaks toward the lead LRA truck and -- KABOOOM! -- the
truck is blown off it's axles -- the other LRA trucks pulling off
the road -- and suddenly we're in a withering firefight -- the roar
of heavy weapons at full-tilt.
SAM AND HIS MEN
117
Jumping out of their trucks and flanking the LRA convoy --
triangulating fire -- shredding the rebels -- blowing them back off
their feet.
NINETEEN
Sprinting through the bush -- edging around the LRA trucks --
finding a position on their weak side and locking an RPG into a
launcher -- shouldering it -- aiming -- WOOOOSH! -- the missile
streaking toward the second LRA jeep and --
KABOOOM!
It's blasted into the air -- onto it's side -- rebels scurrying away
from the wreckage -- still firing -- an absolute hail of lead --
AK's barking in every direction --
KRATAKRATAKRATAKRATAKRAKKK!
One of the rebels standing up -- firing an RPG -- WOOOOOSH!
MARCO crouched behind the new orphanage truck firing -- sees the
white streak coming at him -- dives -- just as --
THE TRUCK IS EVISCERATED IN THE BLAST!
SAM moving closer to the rebels -- shooting -- picking them off one
by one -- gunfire raking over his head -- a dozen muzzle flashes
coming from everywhere -- Sam yelling over the thunder --
SAM
Go! -- Go! -- Go! -- Go!
And we see Deng coming out of the bush to his right -- and then
Nineteen to his left -- and they charge on the remaining rebels --
Sam providing covering fire -- a curtain of lead cutting through the
enemy -- and just like that it's over -- Sam waving behind him --
SAM (CONT'D)
Cease fire!!
-- and suddenly there's just a sick silence -- smoke rising from the
shot-to-shit LRA trucks -- bodies strewn in the dirt -- the brand
new orphanage truck bombed out and smoking on it's side.
And Sam makes his way to the first TRANSPORT TRUCK -- Deng covering
him as he rips the canvas back to see --
50 CHILDREN CRAMMED INTO THE BACK OF THIS TRUCK
SAM (CONT'D)
Pull em all out! C'mon, let's go!
DENG
(to Soldiers, Arabic)
Take them out.
118
Soldiers start to unload the children --
SAM
Cut them loose!
DENG
(to soldier, Arabic)
Cut the ropes!
Sam moves to the second TRANSPORT TRUCK, rips the canvas back to
FIND --
50 MORE CHILDREN SHACKLED IN THE BACK OF THIS TRUCK
Holy fuck indeed.
He's been here before... 100 kids and he only has one good
vehicle... and we watch him standing here... staring at these tiny
faces looking back at him... a moment... lost in indecision until
one of the kids stands up near the back...
IT'S WILLIAM
Sam sees him and suddenly he knows exactly what he needs to do...
SAM
C'MON, LET'S GO!... get em out of there
and line em up! -- C'MON! --
And we've seen this before... Sam going through these children...
assessing their health... one by one... separating the worse off
from the others... forming two group... turning to Deng and Nineteen
and motioning to the smaller group (about 15 children)...
SAM (CONT'D)
Load these here into the truck. Put em
three deep if you have to...
Deng herding the children toward the one good truck...
SAM (CONT'D)
(turning to Marco, Arabic)
Come with me --
NEW ANGLE
Sam and Marco moving from one dead LRA rebel to the other... rolling
them onto their backs... going through their belts... pulling out
extra ammo clips and grenades...
SAM (CONT'D)
Get them AK's too.
(ARABIC)
The machine guns.
Marco swinging four or five machine guns onto his shoulder...
119
NEW ANGLE
At the SUV, now jammed with children. Sam talking to Nineteen, Marco
and the others...
SAM (CONT'D)
I need all you to climb up on that roof
and keep yer eyes peeled. That road back
might be hot, so be ready.
NINETEEN
What about you, Preacher?
VOICE (O.S.)
We're staying.
Sam turns to see Deng next to him, holding an AK in his hands, a
steely resolve in his eyes. Sam nods, emboldened by his support.
SAM
(to the soldiers)
Go on. Get outta here.
The soldiers load onto the SUV and drive off, leaving Sam and Deng
standing here in the middle of these 85 children.
Waiting for the war that will surely come.
