3
A late model Jaguar bumps across some railroad tracks and
approaches a large, clearly abandoned DERELICT BUILDING.
Leonard is driving. He wears a BEIGE SUIT and BLUE SHIRT (no
blood). Next to him is TEDDY. Leonard stops the car next to a
PICKUP TRUCK sitting Outside the derelict building. Leonard
kills the engine, staring at the pickup.
LEONARD
Looks like somebody's home.
Teddy looks from Leonard to the pickup and back.
TEDDY
That thing's been here for years.
Leonard gets out of the Jaguar and moves to the pickup. He
inspects it with a methodical, practiced eye. Teddy follows.
LEONARD
I think you're wrong. These tracks aren't	*
more than a few days old.
Leonard opens the door of the pickup and searches the
interior. On the dirty vinyl of the passenger seat he finds	*
six BULLETS. Leonard picks two of them up and studies them.	*
He drops them onto the dashboard then SHUTS the door.		*
LEONARD (cont'd)
Let's take a look inside.
Leonard walks towards the house, patting his jacket pockets.
Teddy leans on the pickup, uneasy, watching Leonard.
4
7
Teddy starts for a GREY SEDAN. Leonard pauses behind him.
LEONARD
My car.
Teddy glances back in surprise.
TEDDY
This is your car.
LEONARD
(shakes head)
You're in a playful mood.
Leonard holds up a Polaroid of a late model JAGUAR.
LEONARD (cont'd)
Shouldn't make fun of somebody's
*
handicap.
Teddy smiles and heads for the BRAND-NEW JAGUAR parked
several cars further down.
TEDDY
Just trying to have a little fun.
8
The Jaguar crosses the railroad tracks and approaches the
DERELICT BUILDING. Leonard stops the car next to the PICKUP
TRUCK and kills the engine, staring at the pickup.
LEONARD
Looks like somebody's home.
10
12 *
Leonard leaves room 304 and heads to the office. He pauses
just outside the glass door, breathing, psyching himself up.
13
19
Leonard drives, consulting his Polaroid photos.
20
20 *
Leonard, BROWN ENVELOPE in hand, finds the door to room 304.
21
23
Leonard parks the Jaguar, gets out, stops outside the door to
a restaurant, checking its name against a NOTE, written on a
*
SMALL PAPER BAG FROM A PHARMACY. The note says:
*
"CITY GRILL, MAIN ST. THURSDAY, 1.OOPM MEET NATALIE FOR INFO"
He sticks the note in his pocket and pulls out his Polaroid
photographs. He flips through them until he finds Natalie's.
Leonard flips the picture over. On the back are two
handwritten messages. The first one has been completely
scribbled over, the second reads:
"SHE HAS ALSO LOST SOMEONE, SHE WILL HELP YOU OUT OF PITY"
24
31 *
The Jaguar pulls up. Leonard gets out and heads to the
office.
32
33 *
Burt, swinging a pass key on a chain, leads Leonard along the
GROUND FLOOR to room 21, then unlocks it.
34
The Jaguar speeds along.
36
Leonard checks the restaurant name against the note. He gets
out his Polaroids, FLIPPING through them until he finds the
one of Natalie.
MEMENTO Blue Revisions - 8/27/99
26.
37
43
Leonard's Jaguar pulls up at a red light. Suddenly Teddy is
BANGING on the window.
TEDDY
Lenny! I thought you'd gone for good.
What brings you back?
Leonard looks at Teddy, sizing him up.
LEONARD
Unfinished business. What made you think
I wasn't coming back?
TEDDY
You said you were leaving town.
LEONARD
Things change.
TEDDY
So I see. It's good to see you. My name's
Teddy.
LEONARD
Guess I've told you about my condition.
TEDDY
(grins)
Only every time I see ya! Come on, I'll
buy you lunch.
44
45
The Jaguar pulls up. Leonard gets out and heads to the
office.
46
51
The Jaguar pulls up to a red light. Suddenly Teddy is banging
on the window.
TEDDY
Lenny! I thought you'd gone for good.
What brings you back?
52
56 *
Leonard pulls up in his Jaguar, gets out, rings the front
doorbell. It is opened by Natalie.
LEONARD
Natalie, right?
Natalie nods, wary of Leonard's barely concealed anger.
Leonard thrusts a Polaroid photo in her face.
LEONARD (cont'd)
Who the fuck is Dodd?
The photo is of a MAN who is BOUND, GAGGED, and BLOODY. On
the back of the photo:
"GET RID OF HIM, ASK NATALIE"
Natalie takes the picture and examines it.
NATALIE
Guess I don't have to worry about him
anymore.
LEONARD
(snaps)
Who is he? What have you got me into?
Natalie looks up and down the street.
NATALIE
Come inside.
57
68
INSERT LEONARD'S P.O.V.:
A FISH-EYE TEDDY, grinning and waving.
69
70
Teddy exits the room, glances around, motions for Leonard and
Dodd to follow. Dodd is cleaned up and unbound, Leonard is
pressed up right behind him. The three of them descend to the
parking lot.
LEONARD
Which one?
Dodd leads them to a new LANDCRUISER. Teddy whispers in
Leonard's ear.
TEDDY
We probably ought to take his car, you
know, teach him a lesson.
LEONARD
Shut it, Teddy.
TEDDY
Easy for you to say, you've got the Jag.
LEONARD
I'll ride with him. You follow.
TEDDY
Give me your keys.
Leonard looks at him, suspicious.
LEONARD
Take your own car.
Teddy shrugs. Leonard motions Dodd into the driver's seat,
then slides into the passenger side. They pull out of the
parking lot, Teddy following in his GREY SEDAN.
71
The Landcruiser PULLS OVER and stops. The grey sedan pulls up
behind. Leonard gets out of the Landcruiser and it PULLS AWAY
at speed. Leonard walks back to Teddy's car.
72
73
The grey sedan pulls up beside Leonard's Jaguar. Leonard gets
out.
TEDDY
So what are you gonna do now?
LEONARD
I'm gonna ask Natalie what the fuck that
was all about.
TEDDY
Natalie who?
Leonard ignores him and gets into his Jaguar.
74
74
<>
The Jaguar pulls up. Leonard checks the address against the
address written on his Polaroid of Natalie, then goes to the
door and RINGS the bell. It is opened by Natalie.
LEONARD
Natalie, right?
Natalie nods, wary of Leonard's tone. Leonard THRUSTS a
Polaroid in her face.
LEONARD (cont'd)
Who the fuck is Dodd?
The photo shows Dodd, BOUND, GAGGED and BLEEDING.
CUT TO:
75
80
Leonard's Jaguar pulls up, FAST. Several bits of SHATTERED
SAFETY GLASS are still visible in the frame. He parks around
the back, out of sight and consults a note.
LEONARD (V.0.)
I'll get the jump on you, fucker.
(CONTINUED)
MEMENTO Pink Revisions - 9/7/99
53.
80
CONTINUED:							 80
Leonard RACES up the stairs to the rooms on the second floor.
He stops at Room 9, listening. The T.V. is on.
Leonard gets a CREDIT CARD out and slips it into the lock
gently, with a practiced hand. He leaves the CARD WEDGED in
the lock, then steps back from the door and KNOCKS.
Leonard watches the POINT OF LIGHT in the PEEPHOLE to Room 9.
The point of light GOES OUT. Leonard KICKS the door in,
SMASHING THE ROOM'S OCCUPANT BACK INTO THE ROOM.
Leonard stands over him, looking down. The man is
unconscious, blood on his face. Something is not right.
LEONARD (V.O.)
Is this the guy?
Leonard looks down at his NOTE. The room number given is 6.
Leonard looks at the "9" on the door, then down at the
unconscious man.
LEONARD (cont'd)
Fuck! Sorry.
Leonard reaches down, GRABS his credit card from where it
landed on the floor, and backs out of the doorway, shutting
the door on the Unconscious Man.
He MOVES QUICKLY to Room 6, slips his credit card in the lock
and knocks.
No answer, so Leonard slips inside.
81
Leonard is RUNNING FURIOUSLY, arms pumping.
LEONARD (V.O.)
What the fuck am I doing?
Leonard glances to his right, and through a GAP between two
trailers he catches a glimpse of Dodd on the other side of
the trailer homes, RACING along parallel to Leonard.
LEONARD (V.O.) (CONT'D)
Chasing him!
Leonard CUTS down the next gap between trailers, heading FULL
SPEED for Dodd's side.
Dodd (without bruises) appears again at the other end of the
gap, SEES Leonard, and STARTS RUNNING TOWARDS HIM. There is a
GUN in his hand.
LEONARD (V.O.) (CONT'D)
FUCK! He's chasing me.
Leonard SKIDS to a halt and turns around. A BULLET hits the
dirt by his feet. He clears the end of the trailer and THROWS
himself over a chain link fence, dropping down on the other
side and SCRAMBLING through some bushes. He RACES full tilt
into a parking lot, looking around, desperate. He can hear a
CAR ALARM sounding. He pulls his KEYS OUT and hits the ALARM
switch. Hearing the DOUBLE BEEP as the alarm stops, he spots
the Jaguar.
The Jaguar PEELS OUT just as Dodd emerges from the trailer
park.
85
Leonard is in the Jaguar. Dodd (without any bruises) is
standing by the window, aiming his gun at Leonard.
DODD
I haven't made a strong enough
impression.
LEONARD
(amused)
Don't be too hard on yourself.
Dodd motions for Leonard to open the passenger side door.
Dodd gets into the passenger seat, gun on Leonard. Leonard
nods to him.
LEONARD
Seat belt.
Leonard starts to reach over his left shoulder with his right
hand as if for the seat belt. Dodd watches Leonard's right
hand.
With his left hand, Leonard opens the door. He rolls out,
SLAMMING the door in Dodd's face, and hitting the central
locking on his car keys.
Leonard TAKES OFF across the asphalt. Dodd tries the doors,
then SHOOTS at Leonard, SHATTERING the driver's side window,
triggering the CAR ALARM.
Dodd climbs through the window and takes off after him.
Leonard slips into a trailer park, TRIPPING as he DIVES into
a gap between two trailers, STUMBLING over the PLASTIC LAWN
FURNITURE and OLD BIKES which litter the narrow gap.
He picks himself up and SPRINTS into the alley behind the
trailers. He races along behind the trailers.
Leonard is RUNNING FURIOUSLY, arms pumping.
LEONARD (V.O.)(cont'd)
What the fuck am I doing?
(CONTINUED)
MEMENTO Pink Revisions - 9/7/99
56.
87
CONTINUED:							 87
Leonard glances to his right, and through a GAP between the
two trailers he catches a glimpse of Dodd on the other side
of the trailer homes, racing along parallel to Leonard.
LEONARD (V.O.) (cont'd)
Chasing him!
Leonard cuts down the next gap between trailers, heading FULL
SPEED for Dodd's side.
CUT TO:
88
*
Leonard exits room 304 of the Discount Inn carrying a
*
SHOPPING BAG, looking GRIM-FACED.
90
91
The Jaguar speeds along.
92
Leonard gets out of the Jaguar, carrying the shopping bag. He
climbs the chain-link fence.
93
93
Leonard has built a small FIRE. He reaches into the bag and
removes a small STUFFED TOY. He douses it with lighter fluid
and places it on the fire. He watches the fur blacken and the
plastic eyes melt.
Leonard reaches into the bag and pulls out a well-worn
PAPERBACK BOOK, whose cover has long-since been ripped off.
Leonard flicks through the pages.
MEMENTO Blue Revisions - 8/27/99
57.
94
95
He places the BOOK on the fire. He reaches into the bag,
produces a BRA and a HAIRBRUSH. He puts the bra on the fire,
then pulls some BLACK HAIR out of the hairbrush. He holds a
few strands out above the fire until they shrivel up in the
heat. He does this with a larger clump and it produces a
SMALL FLAME so he DROPS it into the fire.
LEONARD (V.O.)
Probably tried this before. Probably
burned truckloads of your stuff. Can't
remember to forget you.
He DROPS the brush onto the fire, pulls a GREEN ALARM CLOCK
out of the bag and adds it to the fire. Once the bag is
EMPTY, Leonard places it on the fire. He sits looking at the
flames.
DISSOLVE TO:
96
The sky has brightened. Leonard KICKS the dying embers apart.
58.
97
Leonard looks into his rearview mirror to see a LANDCRUISER
following him. Leonard SPEEDS UP, turns right. The
Landcruiser sticks behind.
LEONARD (V.O.)
Do I know this guy?
Leonard fishes photographs out of his pocket, examining them.
The Landcruiser ACCELERATES until it is uncomfortably close.
Leonard slows, turning into a PARKING LOT. The Landcruiser
follows.
LEONARD (V.O.)
He seems to know me.
The Landcruiser PULLS ALONGSIDE the Jaguar. Leonard looks
over. Dodd (no bruises) is at the wheel. Leonard rolls down
his window.
LEONARD (V.O.)
What the fuck!
Dodd pulls out a HASNDGUN and points it at Leonard. Leonard
SLAMS on the brakes, JERKING to a halt as the Landcruiser
pulls over in front of the Jaguar.
98
Dodd, gun in hand, gets out of the Landcruiser and
approaches.
DODD
I like your car.
LEONARD
Thanks.
DODD
Where'd you get it?
LEONARD
Interested in buying one?
DODD
I just want you to tell me how you came
by that car.
LEONARD
I forget.
Dodd points his gun at Leonard through the window.
(CONTINUED)
59.
98
CONTINUED:							 98
DODD
I haven't made a strong enough impression
on you.
LEONARD
(amused)
I wouldn't be too hard on yourself.
99
Leonard comes out of Room 304, grim-faced, carrying the
shopping bag. He goes to his Jaguar and gets in.
CUT TO:
110
111
Leonard pulls up in the Jaguar, checks the name against a
NOTE written on a BEER MAT, and heads into the office.
Leonard comes out of the office, gets a sports bag from the
Jaguar, then takes a Polaroid of the entrance and heads for
Room 304.
112
The CAR ALARM of the Jaguar is SOUNDING.
Leonard exits, walks to the car and gets in, switching off
the alarm.
TEDDY (O.S.)
You should lock a car as nice as this.
Teddy is in the passenger seat. Leonard, startled, GRABS him
by the throat.
LEONARD
Who the fuck are you?
TEDDY
(gasping)
Teddy. Your buddy.
LEONARD
Prove it.
TEDDY
(gasping)
Sammy. Remember Sammy. You told me about
Sammy.
Leonard lets him go.
LEONARD
What are you doing in my car?
Teddy is now wearing his big grin, rubbing his neck.
(CONTINUED)
66.
115
CONTINUED:							 115
TEDDY
Sense of humour went with the memory,
huh? You know why you're still here,
don't you?
LEONARD
Unfinished business.
TEDDY
Lenny, as a buddy, let me inform you.
Your business here is very much finished.
You're still here because of Natalie.
LEONARD
Who's she?
Teddy chuckles.
TEDDY
Whose house do you think you just walked
out of?
Leonard looks at the house. Teddy motions towards Leonard's
pockets.
TEDDY (cont'd)
Take a look at your pictures, I bet you
got one of her.
Leonard pulls out his Polaroids and flips through them. He
pauses at the one of Natalie. Teddy SWIPES it out of his
hands to get a better look at the blurred image of Natalie
turning in a doorway.
TEDDY (cont'd)
Great shot, Lenny.
Teddy flips the photo over. There is nothing on the back.
Teddy hands it back to Leonard.
TEDDY (cont'd)
You wanna make a note that you can't
trust her.
LEONARD
Why's that?
TEDDY
Because she'll have taken one look at
your clothes and your car and started
thinking of ways to turn the situation to
her advantage. She's already got you
staying with her, for fuck's sake.
(MORE)
(CONTINUED)
67.
115
CONTINUED: (2)
115
TEDDY (cont'd)
You can't stay with her. Let me give you
the name of a motel.
Teddy starts looking for a piece of paper.
TEDDY (cont'd)
Good thing I found you. She's bad news.
LEONARD
What do you mean "bad news"?
TEDDY
She's involved with these drug dealers.
Teddy opens the GLOVE COMPARTMENT, finding a STACK OF BEER
MATS from a local bar called FERDY'S.
*
TEDDY (cont'd)
See these? That's the bar where she
works. Her boyfriend's a drug dealer.
She'd take orders for him, arrange meets.
He'd write messages on these, then leave
it on the bar. She'd drop replies when
she served him drinks.
LEONARD
Why should I care?
Teddy starts writing on the BEER MAT.
TEDDY
She's gonna use you. To protect herself.
LEONARD
From who?
TEDDY
Guys who'll come after her. Guys who'll
want to know what happened to her
boyfriend. They'll want to make somebody
pay. Maybe she'll try and make it you.
LEONARD
Yeah, well maybe she'll make it you. Is
that it? You worried she'll use me
against you?
TEDDY
She couldn't.
LEONARD
Why not?
(CONTINUED)
MEMENTO Blue Revisions - 8/27/99
68.
115
CONTINUED: (3)
115
TEDDY
(grins)
She has no idea who I am.
LEONARD
Why are you following me?
TEDDY
I'm trying to help you. I knew she'd get
her claws into you. She doesn't know
anything about your investigation, so
when she offers to help you, it'll be for
her own reasons. Why would I lie? Do not
go back to her. Take out a pen, write
yourself a note, do not trust her.
Leonard takes out his pen, places the picture of Natalie face
down on the dash and writes on the white strip on the back:
"DON'T TRUST HER"
LEONARD
Happy now?
TEDDY
I won't be happy until you leave town.
LEONARD
Why?
TEDDY
How long do you think you can hang around
here before people start asking
questions?
LEONARD
What sort of questions?
TEDDY
The sort of questions you should be
asking yourself.
LEONARD
Like what?
TEDDY
Like how'd you get this car? That suit?
LEONARD
I have money.
(CONTINUED)
69.
115
CONTINUED: (4)
115
TEDDY
From what?
LEONARD
My wife's death. I used to work in
Insurance, we were well covered.
TEDDY
So in your grief you wandered into a
Jaguar dealership?
Leonard says nothing. Teddy laughs.
TEDDY (cont'd)
You haven't got a clue, have you? You
don't even know who you are?
LEONARD
Yes, I do. I don't have amnesia. I
remember everything about myself up until
the incident. I'm Leonard Shelby, I'm
from San Fran -
TEDDY
That's who you were, Lenny. You don't
know who you are, who you've become since
the incident. You're wandering around,
playing detective... and you don't even
know how long ago it was.
Teddy reaches out to Leonard's lapel, and gently opens his
jacket to reveal the label.
TEDDY (cont'd)
Put it this way. Were you wearing
designer suits when you sold insurance?			*
Leonard looks down at his suit, then back to Teddy.
LEONARD
I didn't sell -
TEDDY
I know, you investigated. Maybe you need
to apply some of your investigative
skills to yourself.
LEONARD
Yeah, well, thanks for the advice.
TEDDY
Don't go back in there. There's a motel
out of town.
(CONTINUED)
MEMENTO Blue Revisions - 8/27/99
70.
115
CONTINUED: (5)
115
Teddy hands Leonard the BEER MAT and gets out of the car.
TEDDY (cont'd)
It's been fun, Lenny.
Teddy walks off. Leonard pulls his Polaroids out of his
pocket and finds the one of Teddy. He places it on the dash,
face up, next to the one of Natalie which is still face down
on the dash. Leonard reads the message he has written on the
back of Natalie's picture:
"DON'T TRUST HER"
He flips Teddy's picture over, like a croupier turning a card
at blackjack. On the back it says:
"DON'T BELIEVE HIS LIES"
Leonard purses his lips in surprised frustration. He grabs
his pen and scribbles on the back of Natalie's picture,
obliterating the words:
"DON'T TRUST HER"
He flips Natalie's picture over and considers her blurred
image. He looks up at her house, then picks up the BEER MAT,
reading the address Teddy has given him.
LEONARD
Fuck it. I need my own place.
Leonard starts the engine.
116
116
Leonard pulls up in his Jaguar, checks the name of the motel
against the note written on the BEER MAT, then heads into the
office to check in.
Leonard comes out of the office, takes a Polaroid of the
front of the motel, and heads for Room 304.
117
The Jaguar's CAR ALARM is sounding.
Leonard exits Natalie's house, walks to his Jaguar and gets
in, silencing the alarm.
TEDDY (O.S.)
You should lock a car as nice as this.
Leonard, startled, GRABS Teddy by the throat.
CUT TO:
122
Leonard's Jaguar pulls up. Leonard and Natalie (WITHOUT
BRUISES) get out. Leonard is carrying his sports bag.		 *
126
*
Leonard DROPS from a WINDOW, gains his balance and HURRIES to
*
his Jaguar which is parked on the street by the mouth of the
*
alley. He slips into the car, CLOSES the door gently, starts
*
the engine and SPEEDS away.
*
*
Leonard reaches into his jacket pocket and pulls out a round
*
piece of cardboard. It is a BEER MAT with the name of a local
*
bar: "FERDY'S". There is a message written on it:			*
"COME BY AFTERWARDS, NATALIE".
*
Leonard looks up at the doorway of the bar, then pulls the	 *
car around into the parking lot. Natalie is standing by a
*
dumpster, heaving a trash bag into it. She watches the car	 *
pull up, unable to see the driver. Natalie casually knocks on
*
the passenger side window. Leonard lowers the window and
*
Natalie leans down.							*
NATALIE
*
(casual)
*
Hey, Jimmy -
*
Natalie stares at Leonard confused.
*
NATALIE (cont'd)
*
I'm sorry, I... I thought you were				*
someone else.							 *
Natalie backs away from the car, perturbed. Just before she	*
disappears around the corner, she tips the lid of the		 *
dumpster, letting it fall with a metallic howl and a BANG.	 *
The TYRES of the Jaguar SCREAM as the car SCREECHES to a
halt. Leonard backs the car up and stops in front of a TATTOO
PARLOR. He grabs a FILE CARD of f the dash which says:
"TATTOO: FACT 6. CAR LICENSE: SG13 7IU"
146
Leonard DROPS from the window, regains his balance and
hurries to his Jaguar which is parked on the street by the
mouth of the alley.
CUT TO:
153
154
Leonard exits and heads to the Motel office.
155
156
Leonard exits the office, followed by Teddy, and looks
through his Polaroids. He finds one of a PICKUP TRUCK, spots
it in the lot, and walks over to it. He turns around and
points his camera at Teddy. Teddy grins wider. Leonard snaps
the picture.
LEONARD
Something to remember you by.
Leonard lowers the camera and takes out a pen, resting the
picture against the truck, about to write on the white strip
beneath the developing picture.
LEONARD (cont'd)
I'm sorry - is it Officer, or Lieutenant
Gammell?
Teddy coughs and looks at the picture.
TEDDY
Just Teddy. Don't write Gammell please.
Leonard raises his eyebrows.
TEDDY (cont'd)
I'm undercover. Here's directions. He'll
be heading there now.
(CONTINUED)
MEMENTO Pink Revisions - 9/7/99
104.
156
CONTINUED:							 156
Teddy pulls a note out of his pocket and hands it to Leonard.
LEONARD
You're not coming?
TEDDY
Wouldn't be appropriate.						*
Leonard climbs into the truck. Teddy taps on the window.
TEDDY (cont'd)
Leonard?
Leonard cranks it down. Teddy looks at Leonard with something
like fatherly affection.
TEDDY (cont'd)
Make him beg.
157
SEQUENCE##
The pickup truck speeds along, past strip malls and gas
stations, heading into more desolate industrialization.
158
The pickup truck bumps across the railroad tracks, then pulls
up in front of the LARGE DERELICT BUILDING. Leonard gets out
of the pickup, looking around.
159
160
THE JAGUAR is approaching fast. It parks next to the PICKUP
TRUCK, and the driver emerges; a young man in his 30's,
smartly dressed in BEIGE SUIT and BLUE SHIRT. This is JIMMY,
the young man from Natalie's photograph. He looks at the
truck then at the house.
161
171
Leonard emerges to find Teddy trying the Jaguar's doors.
LEONARD
(distraught)
Hey! Mister! I need help!
Teddy looks up.
TEDDY
What's wrong?
LEONARD
There's a guy in here, hurt bad! We gotta
get him to a doctor!
Teddy moves towards the house. Leonard leads him in.
MEMENTO Pink Revisions - 9/7/99
109.
172
Leonard, in BEIGE SUIT and BLUE SHIRT, comes out into the
daylight, THROWS Teddy's CAR KEYS into some bushes then heads
to his PICKUP TRUCK and climbs in. Teddy goes to look for his
keys in the bushes.
(CONTINUED)
MEMENTO - Green Revisions 10-4-99
117.
180
182
As the Jaguar cruises along, Leonard places the FILE CARD on
the dash. It says:
"TATTOO: FACT 6. CAR LICENSE: SG13 7IU"
*
Leonard drives, HEADING BACK INTO TOWN. He looks at his hand
on the steering wheel, reading "REMEMBER SAMMY JANKIS".
LEONARD (V.O.)
I have to believe in the world outside my
own mind. I have to believe that my
actions still have meaning, even if I
can't remember them. I have to believe
that when my eyes are closed, the world's
still there.
Leonard CLOSES HIS EYES, driving blind. Stay on Leonard, not
seeing the road ahead, hearing cars whip past.
LEONARD (V.O.) (cont'd)
(rising tension)
But do I? Do I believe the world's still
there?
Move in on Leonard as cars fly past, horns BLARING.
(CONTINUED)
MEMENTO Blue Revisions - 8/27/99
119.
182
CONTINUED:							 182
LEONARD (V.O.) (cont'd)
Is it still out there?!
(beat)
Yes.
Leonard OPENS his eyes, straightening up the car, BREATHING.
His EYES DART from the STRIP MALLS to the GAS STATIONS, as if
HE IS TRYING TO ABSORB THE WHOLE TOWN IN A SINGLE VIEWING.
LEONARD (V.O.) (cont'd)
We all need mirrors to remind ourselves
who we are. I'm no different.
183
*
From the bewildering BLUR of urban signage, Leonard SUDDENLY
GLIMPSES A TATTOO PARLOR in a strip mall. He SLAMS ON THE
BRAKES.
The tyres SCREAM as the car SCREECHES TO A HALT and we:
CUT TO BLACK.
LEONARD (V.O.) (cont'd)
Now... where was I?
ROLL CREDITS
END.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
The following is Jonathan Nolan's short story
"Memento Mori", the inspiration for his brother,
Christopher Nolan's, screenplay for the film, MEMENTO:
MEMENTO MORI
by
Jonathan Nolan
What like a bullet can undeceive!"
-Herman Melville
Your wife always used to say you'd be late for your own funeral.
Remember that? Her little joke because you were such a slob-always
late, always forgetting stuff, even before the incident.
Right about now you're probably wondering if you were late for hers.
You were there, you can be sure of that. That's what the picture's
for-the one tacked to the wall by the door. It's not customary to take
pictures at a funeral, but somebody, your doctors, I guess, knew you
wouldn't remember. They had it blown up nice and big and stuck it
right there, next to the door, so you couldn't help but see it every
time you got up to find out where she was.
The guy in the picture, the one with the flowers? That's you. And what
are you doing? You're reading the headstone, trying to figure out
who's funeral you're at, same as you're reading it now, trying to
figure why someone stuck that picture next to your door. But why
bother reading something that you won't remember?
She's gone, gone for good, and you must be hurting right now, hearing
the news. Believe me, I know how you feel. You're probably a wreck.
But give it five minutes, maybe ten. Maybe you can even go a whole
half hour before you forget.
But you will forget-I guarantee it. A few more minutes and you'll be
heading for the door, looking for her all over again, breaking down
when you find the picture. How many times do you have to hear the news
before some other part of your body, other than that busted brain of
yours, starts to remember?
Never-ending grief, never-ending anger. Useless without direction.
Maybe you can't understand what's happened. Can't say I really
understand, either. Backwards amnesia. That's what the sign says. CRS
disease. Your guess is as good as mine.
Maybe you can't understand what happened to you. But you do remember
what happened to HER, don't you? The doctors don't want to talk about
it. They won't answer my questions. They don't think it's right for a
man in your condition to hear about those things. But you remember
enough, don't you? You remember his face.
This is why I'm writing to you. Futile, maybe. I don't know how many
times you'll have to read this before you listen to me. I don't even
know how long you've been locked up in this room already. Neither do
you. But your advantage in forgetting is that you'll forget to write
yourself off as a lost cause.
Sooner or later you'll want to do something about it. And when you do,
you'll just have to trust me, because I'm the only one who can help
you.
***
EARL OPENS ONE EYE after another to a stretch of white ceiling tiles
interrupted by a hand-printed sign taped right above his head, large
enough for him to read from the bed. An alarm clock is ringing
somewhere. He reads the sign, blinks,reads it again, then takes a look
at the room.
It's a white room, overwhelmingly white, from the walls and the
curtains to the institutional furniture and the bedspread. The alarm
clock is ringing from the white desk under the window with the white
curtains. At this point Earl probably notices that he is lying on top
of his white comforter. He is already wearing a dressing gown and
slippers.
He lies back and reads the sign taped to the ceiling again. It says,
in crude block capitals, THIS IS YOUR ROOM. THIS IS A ROOM IN A
HOSPITAL. THIS IS WHERE YOU LIVE NOW.
Earl rises and takes a look around. The room is large for a
hospital-empty linoleum stretches out from the bed in three
directions. Two doors and a window. The view isn't very helpful,
either-a close of trees in the center of a carefully manicured piece
of turf that terminates in a sliver of two-lane blacktop. The trees,
except for the evergreens, are bare-early spring or late fall, one or
the other.
Every inch of the desk is covered with Post-it notes, legal pads,
neatly printed lists, psychological textbooks, framed pictures. On top
of the mess is a half-completed crossword puzzle. The alarm clock is
riding a pile of folded newspapers. Earl slaps the snooze button and
takes a cigarette from the pack taped to the sleeve of his dressing
gown. He pats the empty pockets of his pajamas for a light. He rifles
the papers on the desk, looks quickly through the drawers. Eventually
he finds a box of kitchen matches taped to the wall next to the
window. Another sign is taped just above the box. It says in loud
yellow letters, CIGARETTE? CHECK FOR LIT ONES FIRST, STUPID.
Earl laughs at the sign, lights his cigarette, and takes a long draw.
Taped to the window in front of him is another piece of looseleaf
paper headed YOUR SCHEDULE.
It charts off the hours, every hour, in blocks: 10:00 p.m. to 8:00
a.m. is labeled go BACK TO SLEEP. Earl consults the alarm clock: 8:15.
Given the light outside, it must be morning. He checks his watch:
10:30. He presses the watch to his ear and listens. He gives the watch
a wind or two and sets it to match the alarm clock.
According to the schedule, the entire block from 8:00 to 8:30 has been
labeled BRUSH YOUR TEETH. Earl laughs again and walks over to the
bathroom.
The bathroom window is open. As he flaps his arms to keep warm, he
notices the ashtray on the windowsill. A cigarette is perched on the
ashtray, burning steadily through a long finger of ash. He frowns,
extinguishes the old butt, and replaces it with the new one.
The toothbrush has already been treated to a smudge of white paste.
The tap is of the push-button variety-a dose of water with each nudge.
Earl pushes the brush into his cheek and fiddles it back and forth
while he opens the medicine cabinet. The shelves are stocked with
single-serving packages of vitamins, aspirin, antidiuretics. The
mouthwash is also single-serving, about a shot-glass-worth of blue
liquid in a sealed plastic bottle. Only the toothpaste is
regular-sized. Earl spits the paste out of his mouth and replaces it
with the mouthwash. As he lays the toothbrush next to the toothpaste,
he notices a tiny wedge of paper pinched between the glass shelf and
the steel backing of the medicine cabinet. He spits the frothy blue
fluid into the sink and nudges for some more water to rinse it down.
He closes the medicine cabinet and smiles at his reflection in the
mirror.
"Who needs half an hour to brush their teeth?"
The paper has been folded down to a minuscule size with all the
precision of a sixth-grader's love note. Earl unfolds it and smooths
it against the mirror. It reads-
IF YOU CAN STILL READ THIS, THEN YOU'RE A FUCKING COWARD.
Earl stares blankly at the paper, then reads it again. He turns it
over. On the back it reads-
P.S.: AFTER YOU'VE READ THIS, HIDE IT AGAIN.
Earl reads both sides again, then folds the note back down to its
original size and tucks it underneath the toothpaste.
Maybe then he notices the scar. It begins just beneath the ear, jagged
and thick, and disappears abruptly into his hairline. Earl turns his
head and stares out of the corner of his eye to follow the scar's
progress. He traces it with a fingertip, then looks back down at the
cigarette burning in the ashtray. A thought seizes him and he spins
out of the bathroom.
He is caught at the door to his room, one hand on the knob. Two
pictures are taped to the wall by the door. Earl's attention is caught
first by the MRI, a shiny black frame for four windows into someone's
skull. In marker, the picture is labeled YOUR BRAIN. Earl stares at
it. Concentric circles in different colors. He can make out the big
orbs of his eyes and, behind these, the twin lobes of his brain.
Smooth wrinkles, circles, semicircles. But right there in the middle
of his head, circled in marker, tunneled in from the back of his neck
like a maggot into an apricot, is something different. Deformed,
broken, but unmistakable. A dark smudge, the shape of a flower, right
there in the middle of his brain.
He bends to look at the other picture. It is a photograph of a man
holding flowers, standing over a fresh grave. The man is bent over,
reading the headstone. For a moment this looks like a hall of mirrors
or the beginnings of a sketch of infinity: the one man bent over,
looking at the smaller man, bent over, reading the headstone. Earl
looks at the picture for a long time. Maybe he begins to cry. Maybe he
just stares silently at the picture. Eventually, he makes his way back
to the bed, flops down, seals his eyes shut, tries to sleep.
The cigarette burns steadily away in the bathroom. A circuit in the
alarm clock counts down from ten, and it starts ringing again.
Earl opens one eye after another to a stretch of white ceiling tiles,
interrupted by a hand-printed sign taped right above his head, large
enough for him to read from the bed.
***
You can't have a normal life anymore. You must know that. How can you
have a girlfriend if you can't remember her name? Can't have kids, not
unless you want them to grow up with a dad who doesn't recognize them.
Sure as hell can't hold down a job. Not too many professions out there
that value forgetfulness. Prostitution, maybe. Politics, of course.
No. Your life is over. You're a dead man.The only thing the doctors
are hoping to do is teach you to be less of a burden to the orderlies.
And they'll probably never let you go home, wherever that would be.
So the question is not "to be or not to be," because you aren't. The
question is whether you want to do something about it. Whether revenge
matters to you.
It does to most people. For a few weeks, they plot, they scheme, they
take measures to get even. But the passage of time is all it takes to
erode that initial impulse. Time is theft, isn't that what they say?
And time eventually convinces most of us that forgiveness is a virtue.
Conveniently, cowardice and forgiveness look identical at a certain
distance. Time steals your nerve.
If time and fear aren't enough to dissuade people from their revenge,
then there's always authority, softly shaking its head and saying, We
understand, but you're the better man for letting it go. For rising
above it. For not sinking to their level. And besides, says authority,
if you try anything stupid, we'll lock you up in a little room.
But they already put you in a little room, didn't they? Only they
don't really lock it or even guard it too carefully because you're a
cripple. A corpse. A vegetable who probably wouldn't remember to eat
or take a shit if someone wasn't there to remind you.
And as for the passage of time, well, that doesn't really apply to you
anymore, does it? Just the same ten minutes, over and over again. So
how can you forgive if you can't remember to forget?
You probably were the type to let it go, weren't you? Before. But
you're not the man you used to be. Not even half. You're a fraction;
you're the ten-minute man.
Of course, weakness is strong. It's the primary impulse. You'd
probably prefer to sit in your little room and cry. Live in your
finite collection of memories, carefully polishing each one. Half a
life set behind glass and pinned to cardboard like a collection of
exotic insects. You'd like to live behind that glass, wouldn't you?
Preserved in aspic.
You'd like to but you can't, can you? You can't because of the last
addition to your collection. The last thing you remember. His face.
His face and your wife, looking to you for help.
And maybe this is where you can retire to when it's over. Your little
collection. They can lock you back up in another little room and you
can live the rest of your life in the past. But only if you've got a
little piece of paper in your hand that says you got him.
You know I'm right. You know there's a lot of work to do. It may seem
impossible, but I'm sure if we all do our part, we'll figure something
out. But you don't have much time. You've only got about ten minutes,
in fact. Then it starts all over again. So do something with the time
you've got.
***
EARL OPENS HIS EYES and blinks into the darkness. The alarm clock is
ringing. It says 3:20, and the moonlight streaming through the window
means it must be
he early morning. Earl fumbles for the lamp, almost
knocking it over in the process. Incandescent light fills the room,
painting the metal furniture yellow, the walls yellow, the bedspread,
too. He lies back and looks up at the stretch of yellow ceiling tiles
above him, interrupted by a handwritten sign taped to the ceiling. He
reads the sign two, maybe three times, then blinks at the room around
him.
It is a bare room. Institutional, maybe. There is a desk over by the
window. The desk is bare except for the blaring alarm clock. Earl
probably notices, at this point, that he is fully clothed. He even has
his shoes on under the sheets. He extracts himself from the bed and
crosses to the desk. Nothing in the room would suggest that anyone
lived there, or ever had, except for the odd scrap of tape stuck here
and there to the wall. No pictures, no books, nothing. Through the
window, he can see a full moon shining on carefully manicured grass.
Earl slaps the snooze button on the alarm clock and stares a moment at
the two keys taped to the back of his hand. He picks at the tape while
he searches through the empty drawers. In the left pocket of his
jacket, he finds a roll of hundred-dollar bills and a letter sealed in
an envelope. He checks the rest of the main room and the bathroom.
Bits of tape, cigarette butts. Nothing else.
Earl absentmindedly plays with the lump of scar tissue on his neck and
moves back toward the bed. He lies back down and stares up at the
ceiling and the sign taped to it. The sign reads, GET UP, GET OUT
RIGHT NOW. THESE PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO KILL YOU.
Earl closes his eyes.
***
They tried to teach you to make lists in grade school, remember? Back
when your day planner was the back of your hand. And if your
assignments came off in the shower, well, then they didn't get done.
No direction, they said. No discipline. So they tried to get you to
write it all down somewhere more permanent.
Of course, your grade-school teachers would be laughing their pants
wet if they could see you now. Because you've become the exact product
of their organizational lessons. Because you can't even take a piss
without consulting one of your lists.
They were right. Lists are the only way out of this mess.
Here's the truth: People, even regular people, are never just any one
person with one set of attributes. It's not that simple. We're all at
the mercy of the limbic system, clouds of electricity drifting through
the brain. Every man is broken into twenty-four-hour fractions, and
then again within those twenty-four hours. It's a daily pantomime, one
man yielding control to the next: a backstage crowded with old hacks
clamoring for their turn in the spotlight. Every week, every day. The
angry man hands the baton over to the sulking man, and in turn to the
sex addict, the introvert, the conversationalist. Every man is a mob,
a chain gang of idiots.
This is the tragedy of life. Because for a few minutes of every day,
every man becomes a genius. Moments of clarity, insight, whatever you
want to call them. The clouds part, the planets get in a neat little
line, and everything becomes obvious. I should quit smoking, maybe, or
here's how I could make a fast million, or such and such is the key to
eternal happiness. That's the miserable truth. For a few moments, the
secrets of the universe are opened to us. Life is a cheap parlor
trick.
But then the genius, the savant, has to hand over the controls to the
next guy down the pike, most likely the guy who just wants to eat
potato chips, and insight and brilliance and salvation are all
entrusted to a moron or a hedonist or a narcoleptic.
The only way out of this mess, of course, is to take steps to ensure
that you control the idiots that you become. To take your chain gang,
hand in hand, and lead them. The best way to do this is with a list.
It's like a letter you write to yourself. A master plan, drafted by
the guy who can see the light, made with steps simple enough for the
rest of the idiots to understand. Follow steps one through one
hundred. Repeat as necessary.
Your problem is a little more acute, maybe, but fundamentally the same
thing.
It's like that computer thing, the Chinese room. You remember that?
One guy sits in a little room, laying down cards with letters written
on them in a language he doesn't understand, laying them down one
letter at a time in a sequence according to someone else's
instructions. The cards are supposed to spell out a joke in Chinese.
The guy doesn't speak Chinese, of course. He just follows his
instructions.
There are some obvious differences in your situation, of course: You
broke out of the room they had you in, so the whole enterprise has to
be portable. And the guy giving the instructions-that's you, too, just
an earlier version of you. And the joke you're telling, well, it's got
a punch line. I just don't think anyone's going to find it very funny.
So that's the idea. All you have to do is follow your instructions.
Like climbing a ladder or descending a staircase. One step at a time.
Right down the list. Simple.
And the secret, of course, to any list is to keep it in a place where
you're bound to see it.
***
HE CAN HEAR THE BUZZING through his eyelids. Insistent. He reaches out
for the alarm clock, but he can't move his arm.
Earl opens his eyes to see a large man bent double over him. The man
looks up at him, annoyed, then resumes his work. Earl looks around
him. Too dark for a doctor's office.
Then the pain floods his brain, blocking out the other questions. He
squirms gain, trying to yank his forearm away,
the one that feels
like it's burning. The arm doesn't move, but the man shoots him
another scowl. Earl adjusts himself in the chair to see over the top
of the man's head.
The noise and the pain are both coming from a gun in the man's hand-a
gun with a needle where the barrel should be. The needle is digging
into the fleshy underside of Earl's forearm, leaving a trail of puffy
letters behind it.
Earl tries to rearrange himself to get a better view, to read the
letters on his arm, but he can't. He lies back and stares at the
ceiling.
Eventually the tattoo artist turns off the noise, wipes Earl's forearm
with a piece of gauze, and wanders over to the back to dig up a
pamphlet describing how to deal with a possible infection. Maybe later
he'll tell his wife about this guy and his little note. Maybe his wife
will convince him to call the police.
Earl looks down at the arm. The letters are rising up from the skin,
weeping a little. They run from just behind the strap of Earl's watch
all the way to the inside of his elbow. Earl blinks at the message and
reads it again. It says, in careful little capitals, I RAPED AND
KILLED YOUR WIFE.
***
It's your birthday today, so I got you a little present. I would have
just bought you a beer, but who knows where that would have ended?
So instead, I got you a bell. I think I may have had to pawn your
watch to buy it, but what the hell did you need a watch for, anyway?
You're probably asking yourself, Why a bell? In fact, I'm guessing
you're going to be asking yourself that question every time you find
it in your pocket. Too many of these letters now. Too many for you to
dig back into every time you want to know the answer to some little
question.
It's a joke, actually. A practical joke. But think of it this way: I'm
not really laughing at you so much as with you.
I'd like to think that every time you take it out of your pocket and
wonder, Why do I have this bell? a little part of you, a little piece
of your broken brain, will remember and laugh, like I'm laughing now.
Besides, you do know the answer. It was something you learned before.
So if you think about it, you'll know.
Back in the old days, people were obsessed with the fear of being
buried alive. You remember now? Medical science not being quite what
it is today, it wasn't uncommon for people to suddenly wake up in a
casket. So rich folks had their coffins outfitted with breathing
tubes. Little tubes running up to the mud above so that if someone
woke up when they weren't supposed to, they wouldn't run out of
oxygen. Now, they must have tested this out and realized that you
could shout yourself hoarse through the tube, but it was too narrow to
carry much noise. Not enough to attract attention, at least. So a
string was run up the tube to a little bell attached to the headstone.
If a dead person came back to life, all he had to do was ring his
little bell till someone came and dug him up again.
I'm laughing now, picturing you on a bus or maybe in a fast-food
restaurant, reaching into your pocket and finding your little bell and
wondering to yourself where it came from, why you have it. Maybe
you'll even ring it.
Happy birthday, buddy.
I don't know who figured out the solution to our mutual problem, so I
don't know whether to congratulate you or me. A bit of a lifestyle
change, admittedly, but an elegant solution, nonetheless.
Look to yourself for the answer.
That sounds like something out of a Hallmark card. I don't know when
you thought it up, but my hat's off to you. Not that you know what the
hell I'm talking about. But, honestly, a real brainstorm. After all,
everybody else needs mirrors to remind themselves who they are. You're
no different.
***
THE LITTLE MECHANICAL VOICE PAUSES, then repeats itself. It says, "The
time is 8:00 a.m. This is a courtesy call." Earl opens his eyes and
replaces the receiver. The phone is perched on a cheap veneer
headboard that stretches behind the bed, curves to meet the corner,
and ends at the minibar. The TV is still on, blobs of flesh color
nattering away at each other. Earl lies back down and is surprised to
see himself, older now, tanned, the hair pulling away from his head
like solar flares. The mirror on the ceiling is cracked, the silver
fading increases. Earl continues to stare at himself, astonished by
what he sees. He is fully dressed, but the clothes are old, threadbare
in places.
Earl feels the familiar spot on his left wrist for his watch, but it's
gone. He looks down from the mirror to his arm. It is bare and the
skin has changed to an even tan, as if he never owned a watch in the
first place. The skin is even in color except for the solid black
arrow on the inside of Earl's wrist, pointing up his shirtsleeve. He
stares at the arrow for a moment. Perhaps he doesn't try to rub it off
anymore. He rolls up his sleeve.
The arrow points to a sentence tattooed along Earl's inner arm. Earl
reads the sentence once, maybe twice. Another arrow picks up at the
beginning of the sentence, points farther up Earl's arm, disappearing
under the rolled-up shirtsleeve. He unbuttons his shirt.
Looking down on his chest, he can make out the shapes but cannot bring
them into focus, so he looks up at the mirror above him.
The arrow leads up Earl's arm, crosses at the shoulder, and descends
onto his upper torso, terminating at a picture of a man's face that
occupies most of his chest. The face is that of a large man, balding,
with a mustache and a goatee. It is a particular face, but like a
police sketch it has a certain unreal quality.
The rest of his upper torso is covered in words, phrases, bits of
information, and instructions, all of them written backward on Earl,
forward in the mirror.
EventuallyEarl sits up, buttons his shirt, and crosses to the desk. He takes out
a pen and a piece of notepaper from the desk drawer, sits, and begins
to write.
***
I don't know where you'll be when you read this. I'm not even sure if
you'll bother to read this. I guess you don't need to.
It's a shame, really, that you and I will never meet. But, like the
song says, "By the time you read this note, I'll be gone."
We're so close now. That's the way it feels. So many pieces put
together, spelled out. I guess it's just a matter of time until you
find him.
Who knows what we've done to get here? Must be a hell of a story, if
only you could remember any of it. I guess it's better that you can't.
I had a thought just now. Maybe you'll find it useful.
Everybody is waiting for the end to come, but what if it already
passed us by? What if the final joke of Judgment Day was that it had
already come and gone and we were none the wiser? Apocalypse arrives
quietly; the chosen are herded off to heaven, and the rest of us, the
ones who failed the test,
just keep on going, oblivious. Dead
already,
wandering around long after the gods have stopped keeping
score, still optimistic about the future.
I guess if that's true, then it doesn't matter what you do. No
expectations. If you can't find him, then it doesn't matter, because
nothing matters. And if you do find him, then you can kill him without
worrying about the consequences. Because there are no consequences.
That's what I'm thinking about right now, in this scrappy little room.
Framed pictures of ships on the wall. I don't know, obviously, but if
I had to guess, I'd say we're somewhere up the coast. If you're
wondering why your left arm is five shades browner than your right, I
don't know what to tell you. I guess we must have been driving for a
while. And, no, I don't know what happened to your watch.
And all these keys: I have no idea. Not a one that I recognize. Car
keys and house keys and the little fiddly keys for padlocks. What have
we been up to?
I wonder if he'll feel stupid when you find him. Tracked down by the
ten-minute man.
Assassinated by a vegetable.
I'll be gone in a moment. I'll put down the pen, close my eyes, and
then you can read this through if you want.
I just wanted you to know that I'm proud of you. No one who matters is
left to say it. No one left is going to want to.
EARL'S EYES ARE WIDE OPEN, staring through the window of the car.
Smiling eyes. Smiling through the window at the crowd gathering across
the street. The crowd gathering around the body in the doorway. The
body emptying slowly across the sidewalk and into the storm drain.
***
A stocky guy, facedown, eyes open. Balding head, goatee. In death, as
in police sketches, faces tend to look the same. This is definitely
somebody in particular. But really, it could be anybody.
Earl is still smiling at the body as the car pulls away from the curb.
The car? Who's to say? Maybe it's a police cruiser. Maybe it's just a
taxi.
As the car is swallowed into traffic, Earl's eyes continue to shine
out into the night, watching the body until it disappears into a
circle of concerned pedestrians. He chuckles to himself as the car
continues to make distance between him and the growing crowd.
Earl's smile fades a little. Something has occurred to him. He begins
to pat down his pockets; leisurely at first, like a man looking for
his keys, then a little more desperately. Maybe his progress is
impeded by a set of handcuffs. He begins to empty the contents of his
pockets out onto the seat next to him. Some money. A bunch of keys.
Scraps of paper.
A round metal lump rolls out of his pocket and slides across the vinyl
seat.
Earl is frantic now. He hammers at the plastic divider between
him and the driver, begging the man for a pen. Perhaps the cabbie
doesn't speak much English. Perhaps the cop isn't in the habit of
talking to suspects. Either way, the divider between the man in front
and the man behind remains closed. A pen is not forthcoming.
The car hits a pothole, and Earl blinks at his reflection in the
rearview mirror. He is calm now. The driver makes another corner, and
the metal lump slides back over to rest against Earl's leg with a
little jingle. He picks it up and looks at it,
curious now. It is a
little bell. A little metal bell. Inscribed on it are his name and a
set of dates. He recognizes the first one: the year in which he was
born. But the second date means nothing to him. Nothing at all.
As he turns the bell over in his hands, he notices the empty space on
his wrist where his watch used to sit. There is a little arrow there,
pointing up his arm. Earl looks at the arrow, then begins to roll up
his sleeve.
***
"You'd be late for your own funeral," she'd say. Remember? The more I
think about it, the more trite that seems. What kind of idiot, after
all, is in any kind of rush to get to the end of his own story?
And how would I know if I were late,
anyway? I don't have a watch
anymore. I don't know what we did with it.
What the hell do you need a watch for,
anyway? It was an antique.
Deadweight tugging at your wrist. Symbol of the old you. The you that
believed in time.
No. Scratch that. It's not so much that you've lost your faith in time
as that time has lost its faith in you. And who needs it,
anyway? Who
wants to be one of those saps living in the safety of the future, in
the safety of the moment after the moment in which they felt something
powerful? Living in the next moment, in which they feel nothing.
Crawling down the hands of the clock, away from the people who did
unspeakable things to them. Believing the lie that time will heal all
wounds-which is just a nice way of saying that time deadens us.
But you're different. You're more perfect.
Time is three things for
most people, but for you, for us, just one. A singularity. One moment.
This moment. Like you're the center of the clock, the axis on which
the hands turn. Time moves about you but never moves you. It has lost
its ability to affect you. What is it they say? That time is theft?
But not for you. Close your eyes and you can start all over again.
Conjure up that necessary emotion, fresh as roses.
Time is an absurdity. An abstraction. The only thing that matters is
this moment. This moment a million times over. You have to trust me.
If this moment is repeated enough, if you keep trying-and you have to
keep trying-eventually you will come across the next item on your
list.
End.
Memento
Writers : Christopher NolanJonathan Nolan
Genres : DramaMysteryThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb