A million stars wink in the night desert sky. Down here on earth, an
insect, one of those big, beautiful, multicolored four-winged jobs, glides
effortlessly on the breeze, wafting along through the crisp Texas air.
The insect dips, it banks, it does loop-the-loops -- and then SPLATS
unceremoniously against the windshield of a white van that's tearing down
the road.
The van slows to a stop in front of the parked cars, all government-issue
four doors with "INS" stenciled on the sides. Seven or eight INS AGENTS
stand in front of the cars imposingly. Their apparent leader steps forward
and comes to the window.
The DRIVER rolls it down. AGENT JANUS, blonde-haired, blue-eyed, also
government issue, looks at him and sighs.
AGENT JANUS
Well. Nick the Dick. What a surprise. Where
you comin' from?
DRIVER
I was fishing in Cuernavaca.
AGENT JANUS
Sure you were. What do you say we have a
look at your catch?
AT THE BACK OF THE VAN,
the Agents fling open the rear doors, revealing a DOZEN FRIGHTENED
MEXICANS, hopeful immigrants without official permission. Agent Janus
looks at the Driver, who's now held by two other Agents, and shakes his
head.
AGENT JANUS
Me, I woulda thrown 'em back.
(to the passengers, in Spanish)
Vamanos. Fuera. Hagan una lina!
(Let's go. Out. Form a line!)
They pile out of the van. Some are parents with small children.
AGENT JANUS (CONT'D)
What do you get, Nick? Hundred bucks a
head?
Two hundred? I hope you saved it all
for your lawyer, pal, 'cause you're gonna
need --
He stops in the middle of his sentence, as another car is approaching,
fast, its engine WHINING as it barrels down the road toward them. Several
Agents pull their weapons.
The new car pulls a hard right, goes off the road, spins around the INS
cars, and SQUEALS to a sideways halt, silhouetted in front of their
headlights. It's a boxy, black 1986 Ford LTD.
TWO MEN get out, dressed in plain black suits, crisp white shirts, simple
black ties, shiny black shoes. KAY, fiftyish, is the apotheosis of
world-weary; his partner, DEE, mid-sixties, is just weary. They approach
the INS agents.
KAY
We'll take it from here.
AGENT JANUS
Who the hell are you?
Kay and Dee flash some form of ID.
KAY
INS Division 6.
AGENT JANUS
Division 6? I never heard of Division 6.
KAY
Really?
Kay and Dee move past him and approach the row of nervous immigrants.
KAY (CONT'D)
What're we thinking, Dee?
DEE
Tough call, Kay.
He walks down the row, studying the faces, greeting each one cheerily in
Spanish.
KAY
!Oye! Que pasa, coma estas? Hey!
(What's up, how are you?)
No se preocupe, abuela. Bienvenida a los
Estados Unidos.
(Don't worry grandma.
Welcome to the United
States.)
(next)
A donde vas? San Antonio? Buscando trabajo,
no? Buena suerta.
(Where are you going? San
Antonio?
Looking for
work, aren't you?
Good
luck.)
(next)
Es un placer verle aqui.
(It's a pleasure seeing
you here.)
One by one, their faces relax, reassured by Kay's calm demeanor. When he
reaches the fifth Guy, he keeps the same cheery tone, but:
KAY (CONT'D)
Que dices si te rompo la cara?
(What do you say if I
break your face?)
The Guy smiles and nods. Kay stops. His own smile broadens and he drops a
hand on the Guy's shoulder.
KAY (CONT'D)
No hablas ni una palabra del Espanol,
verdad, amigo?
(You don't speak a word
of Spanish, right, friend?)
Again, the Guy smiles and nods. Kay looks back at Dee.
KAY (CONT'D)
We got a winner.
(to the others)
Los restos estan libres a irse. Largense!
(The rest of you are free
to go. Scram!)
AGENT JANUS
Sir!
KAY
Tomen el camion, y vayeuse.
(Get on the road and go.)
AGENT JANUS
Sir, you can't just --
KAY
Don't "Sir" me! You have no idea who you're
dealing with!
Silence on the road. The Driver grins, jumps back in the front seat of the
van. The others pile into the rear and they tear out of there.
KAY (CONT'D)
(to Janus)
We're gonna have a little chat with our
friend here. You boys can hit the road ...
and keep on protecting us from dangerous
aliens.
Kay and Dee escort their captive across the road and over a small rise,
leaving the stunned INS agents standing alone in the roadway.
AGENT JANUS
You ever heard of Division 6?
2ND INS AGENT
There is no Division 6.
3RD INS AGENT
Who are those guys?
Kay and Dee lead their captive into a clearing in the desert brush. Dee
pulls an enormous handgun from a shoulder holster and stays a pace or two
off, covering him. Kay has an arm draped around the man's shoulders.
KAY
I think you jumped off the bus in the wrong
part of town, amigo. In fact, I'll bet
dollars to pesos that you're not --
He pulls out a small laser device, which he ZIPS neatly down the front of
the man's clothes.
KAY (CONT'D)
-- from anywhere near here.
The man's clothes fall to the ground, revealing what he really is
underneath -- A SCALY SPACE BASTARD, about four-and-a-half feet tall, with
a snouth, snail-like tentacles, and independently moving eyes on stalks at
the top of his head.
The only part of his camouflage not crumpled to the ground is the
humanesque "head," which he still lamely holds in one of his hands. It's
propped up by a stick, like a puppet, and it continues to make expressions
as he holds it.
KAY (CONT'D)
Mikey?! When did they let you out of jail?
MIKEY replies -- an unfathomable combination of GRUNTS, SQUEAKS, and
saliva.
KAY (CONT'D)
Political refugee. Right.
DEE
You know how many treaty articles you've
just violated?
Mikey makes a lame SQUEAK.
KAY
One, my ass. Try seven.
DEE
From unauthorized immigration to failure to
properly inoculate prior to landing.
KAY
(off Mikey's objections)
Okay, that's enough. Hand me your head and
put up your arms.
From behind Mikey, they hear a terrified GASP.
Kay and Dee both look over quickly. One of the alien's eyes, on a tall
stalk, whips around too. All three of them see AGENT JANUS, standing just
over the rise, staring in frozen amazement.
KAY (CONT'D)
Ah, shit.
Agent Janus SCREAMS. Mikey rips free of the rest of the "Mexican"
disguise, knocks Dee out of the way, and takes off straight at Janus,
SCREECHING a horrible Space Bastard screech. Janus freezes, terrified.
KAY (CONT'D)
Dee! Shoot him!
Dee struggles to roll over and change the controls on his gun, which fell
out of his hand as he hit the ground.
KAY (CONT'D)
Dee, for Christ's --
Mikey keeps moving, covering the last few yards to Janus quickly. He steps
on a rock, launches himself into the air, his dripping jaws cranked wide
open --
-- there is a SIZZLING sound, a brilliant white flash --
-- and Mikey ERUPTS in a geyser of blue goo that splatters all over the
ground, the trees, and Agent Janus' face. Behind where Mikey was, Kay
stands, smoking weapon in hand.
On the road, the INS AGENTS pull their guns and run toward the rise.
Kay has an arm around Janus, whom he is leading further into the clearing.
Janus is white, shaking, eyes like silver dollars.
AGENT JANUS
Th -- th -- th --
KAY
(helping)
"That."
AGENT JANUS
That wasn't -- wasn't -- wasn't --
KAY
Human, I know. Oops. Got some entrails on
you.
He takes out a handkerchief and wipes off the Agent's face. As he does,
Janus looks back to where Mikey blew up. Then at Kay. And then up at the
stars.
The other INS Agents burst over the rise, SHOUTING questions.
KAY
Okay, everybody, situation's under control,
calm down. If you'll just give me your
attention for a moment I'll tell you what
happened.
From over the rise, car engines WHINE in the distance and headlights start
to flash around them. Kay reaches into his pocket and pulls out a tubular
metallic device the size of a pocket recorder. He checks his watch,
figures in his head, then dials an electronic counter on the side of the
device up to "08."
KAY (CONT'D)
This is called a "neuralyzer." A gift from
some friends from out of town. The red eye
here isolates and measures the electronic
impulses in your brain. More specifically,
the ones for memory.
Behind him, six more MEN IN BLACK, all wearing black suits and sunglasses,
come over the hill. Kay barks a few orders to them.
KAY (CONT'D)
Gimme a splay burn on the perimeter, please;
holes at 40, 60, and 80.
2ND INS AGENT
What in the hell is going on?!
KAY
Exactly the right question. And the answer
lies right -- here. Pay attention.
JANUS
Who are you, really?
KAY
Really? I'm just a figment of your
imagination.
He holds up the neuralyzer. The Agents peer closely at it.
Kay reaches
into his pocket, puts on his own black sunglasses --
-- and pushes a button on the side of the neuralyzer.
A BLINDING FLASH a
tenth of a second long sears the Agents' eyeballs. They stare blankly.
KAY (CONT'D)
God, we're a gullible breed.
Behind him, TONGUES OF FIRE blast from a flame thrower held by one of the
Men in Black. Kay looks back at the INS Agents, who are just coming
around, as if awakening from a concussion.
KAY (CONT'D)
I mean it, fellas, you are lucky to be
alive after a blast like that.
The Agents look around, confused.
AGENT JANUS
What -- blast?
Kay gestures behind him, where the Men in Black are now using fire
extinguishers to douse the flames they themselves started.
KAY
Underground gas vein, genius. You guys need
to exercise more caution before discharging
your firearms.
He jabs a finger into Janus' chest.
KAY (CONT'D)
Especially you.
Dee has moved away from them all and is sitting on a rock, staring up at
the night sky, his sunglasses dangling idly from one hand. Kay steps away
from the group and finds him. He sits down next to him.
DEE
I'm sorry. About...back there.
KAY
Happens.
DEE
Didn't used to.
He holds up his hands, which tremble with age.
DEE (CONT'D)
The spirit's willing, Kay, but the rest of
me...
He looks up, at the million stars shining overhead.
DEE (CONT'D)
They're beautiful, aren't they?
KAY
What?
DEE
The stars. We never just -- look. Anymore.
(back to Kay)
I'll tell ya, Kay. I will miss the chase.
Kay pulls his neuralyzer from his pocket and looks down at it.
KAY
No. You won't.
A shot of the clock on the Station's stately southern exposure. WE PAN
DOWN TO...
A pair of feet running. They belong to a man we will know as the
PERPETRATOR. As we track with him, he SPEEDS UP and OUT OF FRAME.
A new set of feet come into frame. These belong to JAMES EDWARDS, a NYC
COP in undercover street clothes. In the BACKGROUND, about ten feet
behind, are two other cops, trying to keep up.
Edwards is a lot faster, though. He pulls out his badge that hangs from a
chain under his shirt.
EDWARDS
Stop! NYPD!
He continues running, out of frame, and we stay on one of the other COPS,
overweight, who gives up the chase and drops to his knees, heaving air.
COP
All yours, Edwards!
The Cop fumbles in his pocket for a pack of cigarettes.
TRACK WITH EDWARDS AND THE PERP
As they run down the bridge that traverses Park Avenue in the low Forties.
The Perp veers to the left and, seemingly oblivious to the fact that it's
a thirty-foot drop, he hurdles the guard rail, and drops to Forty-first
Street below.
EDWARDS is surprised by this maneuver, but doesn't waste a second. He,
too, hurdles the guard rail and lands on...
A DOUBLE-DECKER BUS, one of those cheesy sightseers that hold up midtown
traffic. The bus, of course, is completely filled with JAPANESE TOURISTS,
and it seems like every single one of them has a video camera.
EDWARDS pushes through the crowd...
EDWARDS
Grand Central Station off to your left,
folks...
With the bus still moving, he scrambles down the circular stairs and runs
out through the side door.
He spots the Perp, sailing east on Forty-first Street.
EDWARDS
Dammit, man, you're making me sweat up my
gear!
Edwards spots one of those New York Post delivery trucks, the kind with
the open back door, rumbling by.
He runs and jumps into the back.
THE PERP, meanwhile, is running at top speed, when Edwards glides into
frame, leaning off the back of the truck.
EDWARDS
Yo, man, your luck just ran out.
He leaps from the back of the moving truck and tackles the Perp.
The Perp, now straddled by Edwards, is terrified.
PERP
He's coming! He's coming!
EDWARDS
And when he gets here, I'll kick his ass
too.
Edwards is about to slap the cuffs on him, when the Perp blinks. Nothing
unusual about that, but then another set of translucent, milky white
eyelids, underneath his regular eyelids, blinks also.
Edwards is thrown for a moment, which is all the time the Perp needs to
pull out...
His WEAPON, which is the strangest looking gun you've ever seen. Reacting
quickly, Edwards bats it out of the Perp's hand.
THE WEAPON smashes into the stone wall surrounding Central Park and
SHATTERS into a million pieces.
EDWARDS
What the...
WHOMP! The Perp kicks him in the nuts, then scrambles to his feet and
takes off again. Edwards staggers after him, in pain.
The Perp leaps over a moving car, towards the GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM. Edwards
tries to follow, but a bus pulls in front of him. After it passes, the
Perp is gone.
Edwards runs over to the Museum, leans over the wall that surrounds it,
and in the next instant...
The Perp flies past him, having leapt from twenty feet down to the top of
the Guggenheim. He scrambles up and over the ledge.
Edward reacts. He runs to the front door of the Museum, shoots it open and
runs inside.
He runs from the rotunda up the grand ramp of the Guggenheim.
On the roof, the PERP reaches the top, climbs over the edge, and CRUNCHES
to the gravel surface. He leaps to his feet and races over to a door. It's
locked.
He tugs on another. It's locked too. He pulls on a third. It swings open --
-- revealing EDWARDS on the other side, breathing hard. He aims his weapon
at the Perp.
EDWARDS
Wassup?
The Perp SCREAMS inhumanly and panics. He backpedals, toward the edge of
the roof.
PERP
He's coming! He's coming because I failed,
and now he'll kill me too!
EDWARDS
Stop!
PERP
You don't understand. Your world is gonna
end.
But the Perp has backed right into the edge of the roof, and now he starts
to fall over. The Perp blinks.
EDWARDS
What are you?!
The Perp looks down. He decides.
-- and he falls, SCREAMING, to his death.
CUT TO:
Edwards looks around. Sees they're standing in front of a PAWN SHOP.
EDWARDS
This is where we're going?
They get out of the car.
EDWARDS (CONT'D)
Jack Jeebs? Guy buys from chain snatchers.
Doesn't even sell guns.
KAY
Really?
EDWARDS
All right, you think it's worth shaking him
up, fine. I'll do my thing. Then I want some
answers.
KAY
Do your "thing," kid.
Edwards goes inside.
Edwards staggers out of the shop, trying to get the day's events straight
in his head.
EDWARDS
The eyelids, fine ... and the jumping thing
... and the gun ... okay, but the head?
KAY
Searching for a handle on the moment here?
A place to file all this.
EDWARDS
See a head doesn't do that, it doesn't just
grow back.
(looking up)
What's going on?
KAY
Can't help you, kid. Only comfort I can
offer is that tomorrow, you won't remember
a thing.
EDWARDS
Oh, no. This I'm gonna remember for a long,
long time.
Kay pulls the neuralyzer from his pocket. He hesitates for the briefest of
moments -- as if this particular neuralyzation is different than all the
others.
Then he puts on his sunglasses.
KAY
Ever see one of these?
CUT TO:
A lonely farmhouse stands amid the fields of upstate New York farm
country. Several lights are on and through a window we can see the
silhouette of a MAN sitting at the kitchen table, the silhouette of a
WOMAN hovering over him, bringing things to him.
The Man (EDGAR) waves his arms, ranting.
EDGAR (O.S.)
I go out, I work my butt off to make a
living, all I want is to come home to a
nice clean house with a nice fat steak on
the table, but instead I get this -- this
-- I don't even know what you call this!
In the sky above, it's one of those brilliant star fields. But something
strange is happening with one of those stars -- it's getting bigger.
EDGAR (O.S.)
I'll tell you what it looks like, it looks
like poison. Don't you take that away, I'm
eating that, damn it! It is poison, isn't
it?!
No, that star isn't getting bigger, it's moving. Toward us. Fast. It goes
from a pinpoint to a dime, to a nickel, to a quarter, and works its way
into fruit metaphors.
EDGAR (O.S.)
I swear to God, I would not be surprised if
it was, the way you skulk around here like
a dog been hit too much -- or ain't been
hit enough, I can't make up my mind.
Okay, we're way past watermelon now, that thing is huge, and it's starting
to glow hot red as it enters the earth's atmosphere, headed straight
toward us, coming here, to Beatrice and Edgar's place.
The blazing fireball barrels through the sky, SNAPS off a couple trees --
EDGAR (O.S.)
You're useless, Beatrice! The only thing
that pulls its weight around here is my
goddamn truck!
-- and SLAMS right through a pickup truck parked in the driveway. A
concussive BLAST follows, then a geyser of smoke and flame erupts.
EDGAR (O.S.)
Stay here!
The silhouette of Edgar leaps to its feet, races to the door, and throws
it open. Edgar is everything his voice led us to expect -- a nasty,
bug-eyed redneck carrying a twelve-gauge shotgun. His mouth agape, he
walks across the yard and stares at the hulking shell that was his truck.
The skeleton of the truck is still there, but there's a huge, smoldering
hole in it, a hole that goes at least ten feet down into the ground.
EDGAR
Figures.
He walks to the truck and touches the door handle. Hot. Using his shirt
tail, he opens the door and peers down into the hole.
IN THE HOLE, he sees a smooth curve of metal and a few blinking lights.
Embedded into the ground is, indeed, a spaceship, maybe eight feet across.
BEATRICE calls from behind him, standing in the doorway fearfully.
BEATRICE
What is it, Edgar?!
EDGAR
(turns to her)
Get your big butt back in that house!
Beatrice does as she's told, closing the door behind her. Edgar turns back
to the smoldering rock, raising his shotgun in defense. AN OTHERWORLDLY
VOICE comes from deep in the hole.
VOICE (O.S.)
Place projectile weapon on ground.
Edgar staggers back a step, terrified. But then he regains himself, raises
the weapon, and steps forward, pointing it menacingly down into the hole.
EDGAR
You can have my gun when you pry it from my
cold, dead fingers!
There is a pause while the voice thinks about this offer. Finally, it
responds, in a voice and cadence remarkably similar to Edgar's.
VOICE (O.S.)
Your proposal is acceptable.
A long, hairy pincer flashes out of the hole, grabs Edgar by the head, and
pulls him down into the hole.
From deep in the hole, we hear a terrible RIPPING sound, like a bedsheet
being torn in half. There are some disgusting GUSHY sounds, then a moment
later, something flies out of the hole and FLOPS onto the ground next to
the truck.
It's Edgar. Well, sort of. His body parts still hang together -- face,
arms, legs, even clothes -- but everything inside has been removed and now
he just lies there, flat and empty, like a tuxedo on the floor after the
prom.
The shotgun flies out and lands beside him.
CUT TO:
Stillness. Silence. A loud SCRAPING sound comes from the pit left by the
spaceship.
The nose of the ship itself rises up out of the pit, wavers, keeps moving,
and finally CRUNCHES to the ground outside the pit.
EDGAR climbs out of the pit, breathing heavily. He dusts himself off and
continues pushing the ship, along the ground, off into the darkness.
CUT TO:
The next morning. EDWARDS, holding the small MIB business card in his
hand, compares the address written down by Kay to the address on the
utterly nondescript building in front of him. It's seven stories high,
gray, windowless, perfectly square, squatting on a bridge over a road like
a fat guy on the john.
"504 Battery Drive."
EDWARDS, thrown for a major loop, sits like a zombie alongside KAY on a
bench in Battery Park. Kay drinks his coffee while they talk.
KAY
Any given time, around fifteen hundred
landed aliens are on the planet, the
majority right here in Manhattan. Most
aliens are decent enough, just trying to
make a living.
EDWARDS
Cab drivers?
KAY
Not as many as you'd think. Humans, for the
most part, don't have a clue. Don't want
one, either. They're happy. They think
they've got a pretty good bead on things.
EDWARDS
Why the big secret? People are smart, they
can handle it.
KAY
A person is smart. People are dumb.
Everything they've ever "known" has been
proven to be wrong. A thousand years ago
everybody knew as a fact, that the earth
was the center of the universe. Five
hundred years ago, they knew it was flat.
Fifteen minutes ago, you knew we humans
were alone on it. Imagine what you'll know
tomorrow.
EDWARDS
So what's the catch?
KAY
What you'll gain in perspective, you'll
lose in ways you're too young to comprehend.
You give up everything. Sever every human
contact. No one will know you exist. Ever.
EDWARDS
Nobody?
KAY
You're not even allowed a favorite shirt.
There.
That's the speech I never heard.
That's the choice I never got.
EDWARDS
Hold up. You track me down, put me through
those stupid-ass tests, now you're trying
to talk me out of it. I don't get it.
KAY
You got 'til sun-up.
EDWARDS
Is it worth it?
KAY
You find out, you let me know.
DISSOLVE TO:
Almost nighttime now, and the park is empty. EDWARDS is still on the
bench. And still thinking. Above him, the stars are coming out.
Slowly, he looks up, into the vastness of the heavens.
DISSOLVE TO:
A six-by-ten sheet of plywood THUDS to the driveway outside the garage.
EDGAR raises one end of it so it's hanging off the back end of the Orkin
man's van -- now it's a ramp.
He walks off and we hear that familiar SCRAPING sound again. Edgar,
GRUNTING with the effort, slowly pushes his spaceship up the ramp and into
the back of the Orkin truck.
CUT TO:
We are looking at a telephoto shot of Manhattan in all its splendor.
We see the Orkin van topping a hill, heading towards Manhattan.
JAY and KAY come out the front of MIB headquarters.
JAY
Yo, wussup with Zed?
(imitating him)
"Go get em, tiger. We're not hosting an
intergalactic kegger..."
KAY
Zed was saving the world before you were
born, son. Show some respect.
An MIB MECHANIC pulls up in Kay's black LTD and hops out, leaving the door
open. Jay sizes up the car.
JAY
We got the use of unlimited technology from
the entire universe and we cruise around in
this?
Kay glares at Jay. He's getting annoyed.
The LTD is now stopped by the side of the road, dust swirling around it.
Ahead of it, another car has pulled over. KAY gets out, JAY follows a
moment later, shaky-legged. Kay walks up to the window of the car they've
stopped. The DRIVER, a guy in his mid-thirties with a WIFE in her
mid-thirties, rolls the window down.
KAY
License and registration, please.
The Driver hands over some documents. Kay flips through them.
KAY (CONT'D)
Other license and registration, please.
The guy digs out two other cards and hands those over. Jay peers over
Kay's shoulder.
The photographs on the "RESIDENT ALIEN ID"cards are of two
friendly-looking reptile types, husband and wife, smiling atthe camera,
their long, skinny tongues dangling in a friendly sort of way.
Kay hands them back.
KAY (CONT'D)
Your resident card has you restricted to
the five boroughs only. Where do you think
you're going?
REDGICK
It's my wife! She's -- she's -- well, look!
Kay leans down and looks in the window. MRS. REDGICK is in front, MOANING
in pain, holding her swollen belly. Kay straightens up, fast.
KAY
Oh God. How soon?
Mrs. Redgick SCREAMS in pain. Real soon. For the first time since we've
seen him, Kay is nervous.
KAY (CONT'D)
Okay. All right. No big deal.
(to Jay)
You handle it.
JAY
Me?
KAY
Sure, it's easy, you just sorta -- catch.
Mrs. Redgick SCREAMS again. Redgick gets out of the car, worried.
REDGICK
Are you sure he knows what he's doing?
KAY
Yeah, hell, sure, he does this all the time.
C'mon, let him work, Redgick, I wanna ask
you something.
Kay gives Jay a supportive SLAP on the back and leads Redgick away, to the
rear of the car. Jay stays in the background and opens the rear door,
tentatively. He leans down, into the car.
JAY
Oh God! I see it I see it I see it!
A few yards from the car, Kay turns Redgick to face him.
KAY
Croagg the Midwife's back on 64th and 8th.
You were headed out of town.
REDGICK
Well, we're, uh -- meeting someone.
Suddenly a TENTACLE whips out from between Mrs. Redgick's legs, CRACKS the
whip once, and wraps around the door post, grabbing hold.
JAY
Oh sweet Jesus Mother of God did you see
that?!
KAY
(still to Redgick)
So? Who you meeting?
REDGICK
Well, it's -- a ship.
KAY
Really? I didn't see a departure clearance
for today.
REDGICK
You didn't? Uh, well -- it was an emergency.
Now a SECOND TENTACLE whips out, but this one wraps around Jay's neck and
pulls tight. He GASPS, choking.
JAY
Guys -- guys --
KAY
Doin' fine, Ace.
(back to Redgick)
What kind of emergency? What's the rush to
get off the planet all of a sudden?
JAY
(choking to death)
Help?! HELP! Hello?!
He starts tugging for all he's worth, but the fight is sort of going
against him, as the tentacles pull him in even harder than he tries to
pull the baby out.
REDGICK
We just don't like the neighborhood anymore.
Some of the -- new arrivals.
Redgick looks at Kay, clearly concealing something, but darts his eyes
away.
KAY
What new arrivals? This have anything to do
with the crasher from last night?
JAY
(Screaming)
Can you guys do this later?!
But in that moment, Jay finally gets a foot up on the door frame, acquires
leverage, and RIPS the baby free. He falls, flat on his back in the dirt,
the multi-tentacled lizardlike baby resting squarely on his chest.
JAY (CONT'D)
Oh -- oh -- oh -- man.
Kay turns and claps Redgick on the back.
KAY
Congratulations! It's a lizard.
Jay looks down at the creature COOING and nestling on his chest.
JAY
(misty)
Hey, you know, it is sorta --
It vomits on him.
CUT TO:
Back in the car, JAY wipes the last of the puke off his suit while KAY
starts up the car.
KAY
Anything about that seem unusual to you?
Jay just looks at him, very Jack Benny.
JAY
Pick.
KAY
What kind of "new arrival" would scare
Redgick so bad that he'd risk a warp jump
with a newborn?
(thinks)
Let's check the hot sheets.
CLOSE ON on various supermarket tabloids as a hand flips through them.
There are headlines like "POPE A FATHER!"and "TOP DOCTORS BAFFLED -- BABY
BORN PREGNANT!" and "MAN EATS OWN HOUSE!" (the subhead on that one is "And
That's Just the Appetizer, Says Neighbor.")
KAY and JAY are at a downtown newsstand. Kay is furiously searching
through the tabs; Jay is standing behind him, a little embarrassed.
JAY
These are the hot sheets?
Kay pulls a copy of the Weekly World News from the stand and gives the guy
a buck.
KAY
Best damn investigative reporting on the
planet.
But hey, go ahead, read the New
York Times if you want. They get lucky
sometimes.
JAY
You're actually looking for tips in a
supermarket tabloid?
KAY
Not looking for. Found.
He SMACKS the paper down on the hood in front of Jay, the pages turned
open to a headline in typeface so large one would think it reserved for
the Second Coming:
Farm wife says
"ALIEN STOLE MY HUSBAND'S SKIN!"
CUT TO:
A flap of skin, now getting gray and crusty with age, hangs off EDGAR's
neck as he sits in the front of his Orkin van. He sucks as hard as he
possibly can on a straw stuck into a Jolt Cola ("Double the Sugar! Triple
the Caffeine!"), one of a six-pack that sits on the dashboard.
Across the street, Edgar sees a short, older man come out of one of the
jewelry shops on Thirty-Fifth Street. Edgar drops the soda and stares.
The Older Man (ROSENBERG), is carrying a cat and an ornate rosewood
jewelry box. Carefully, he sets the box down and lovingly places the cat
on top of it while he locks all five locks on the door to his distinctive
shop.
That finished, he picks up the cat, then the box, then waddles off down
the street, one under each arm.
Edgar drops the truck into gear and follows him, slowly, trolling along
behind him.
ON THE STREET, Rosenberg walks happily along, HUMMING to himself. He gives
his cat a little peck. As he rounds a corner, we recognize the tune he's
humming -- "I've Got the Whole World In My Hands."
The Orkin van rounds the corner behind him. Following.
CUT TO:
The LTD pulls to a stop at the end of the driveway that leads to
Beatrice's farmhouse, where the alien ship landed. The wrecked pickup
truck is still there. JAY and KAY get out, very undercover cop. Jay starts
up the driveway.
KAY
Not so fast. Walk up slow.
JAY
Why?
KAY
Part of the routine. Makes it look like
we're sizing up the situation. Gives her
time to get the wrong impression.
BEATRICE appears in the door to the house, curious.
KAY (CONT'D)
Puts some fear into her. Makes things go
smoother.
Beatrice calls to them.
BEATRICE
Can I help you gentlemen?
Beatrice looks much better than the last time we saw her -- more nicely
dressed, a touch of makeup, a smile on her face.
Kay pulls a black card from his wallet and extends it to her as she draws
close. As she reaches for it, the card reforms into an FBI badge.
KAY
How do you do, ma'am, I'm Special Agent
Manheim, this is Agent Black, FBI. Had a
few questions about your visitor.
BEATRICE
Are you here to make fun of me too?
KAY
No ma'am. We at the FBI don't have a sense
of humor that we're aware of. Mind if we
come in?
BEATRICE
Sure. Lemonade?
CUT TO:
KAY is in the hole where the ship landed, investigating. He holds a pocket
spectral analyzer over a section of scorched earth.
The analyzer shifts
colors.
Red. Then Yellow.
JAY
(from up outside the hole)
Hey. Kay...when am I gonna get one of those
memory things?
The spectral analyzer turns blue.
KAY
When you're ready.
(re: analyzer)
Please -- not green.
Purple. And then green.
Kay closes his eyes and sits back, leaning against the dirt. Above him,
JAY leans over, staring down. Kay looks up at him.
KAY (CONT'D)
Do you know what alien life form leaves a
green spectral trail?
JAY
Wait -- don't tell me -- that was the
question on Final Jeopardy last night.
AT THE CAR, Kay snatches up the radio handset and keys the microphone.
KAY
(softly, into mic)
Zed, we have a bug.
He turns off the radio and sighs. Jay stands next to him.
JAY
I'm gonna jump way past you and just guess
that this is bad. Right?
KAY
Bugs thrive on carnage, Tiger.
They
consume, infest and destroy. They live off
the death and decay of other species.
JAY
So basically you have a racial problem with
all insect-based life forms?
KAY
Listen, kid -- imagine a giant cockroach
five times smarter than Albert Einstein,
four times stronger than an ox, nine times
meaner than hell, strutting his stuff
around Manhattan Island in his brand new
Edgar suit. Does that sound like fun?
JAY
What do we do?
KAY
With a bug in town? Watch the morgues.
CUT TO:
ROSENBERG, the jewelry store owner, steps out of a cab in the meat-packing
district, still carrying the ornate box and his beloved cat. He heads into
Leshko's, a Russian diner.
A moment later, the Orkin van pulls to a stop across the street.
Later, and the Russian diner is now a crime scene, clustered with COPS and
flashing lights. THREE BODIES, now on stretchers and covered with sheets,
are being loaded into the back of ambulances.
ROSENBERG'S CAT races out of a UNIFORMED COP's arms and leaps onto one of
the stretchers, MEOWING mournfully. The Uniformed Cop turns to a POLICE
INSPECTOR who is questioning the WOMAN from the diner.
COP
What am I supposed to do with the cat?
INSPECTOR
I don't know. Send it with the stiff. Let
family claim it.
The Cop nods and follows the stretcher with Rosenberg's body into the back
of one of the ambulances, allowing the cat to ride on the chest of its
dead owner for the time being.
The doors of the wagon SLAM shut.
CUT TO:
Kay's LTD pulls up in front of the morgue.
Jay and Kay exit the morgue and walk towards their car.
JAY
Hey, Kay, I really think I should be in
charge of the flashy memory thing
department.
KAY
Not while I'm around, Slim.
JAY
Yeah, well you're a menace with that
thing...
An MIB containment vehicle pulls up, and four men dressed in black suits
get out.
KAY
(to an MIB Agent)
We've got two dead aliens in there, and a
deputy medical coroner in need of a new
memory.
CUT TO:
The Orkin van is parked in an alleyway somewhere downtown. From inside,
throaty WAILS of frustration can be heard. Two PASSERSBY hear the racket
and hesitate, wondering if they should get involved.
But an inhuman GROWL rattles the whole van and they wise up, hurrying on
their way.
As lower Manhattan is waking up, Jay and Kay enter the building.
EDGAR rushes outside as the tow truck DRIVER gets the van up on the hoist.
EDGAR
That's my truck!
DRIVER
And make sure you tell them that at the
impound.
Edgar reaches into the front seat of the van and pulls out his twelve
gauge. He points it at the tow truck Driver. The tow truck driver looks at
him with disdain, and pulling back his shirt reveals a mean-looking gun.
DRIVER (CONT'D)
I got worse.
He keeps hitching up the van. Two pedestrians walk past the dispute, very
fast, ignoring the debate, headed right for the shop. We go with them, and
realize that it's --
-- JAY and KAY. They stop at the smashed door of the jewelry shop and
exchange a glance. Kay pulls a very menacing-looking weapon, nods, and
they step inside.
Edgar doesn't bother sticking around to continue his fight. He jumps
behind the wheel of the tow truck, starts it up, and hits the gas. The
engine ROARS.
Jay sprints after him, FIRING his noisy cricket. He is thrown back into
some pedestrians, while his SHOT...
Hits the rigging between the Orkin Van and the town truck, separating the
two. Jay pulls himself up and sprints after the tow truck, but it
accelerates too quickly.
Edgar is just about to turn the corner when Jay leaps onto a parked CAR to
try and get some height. As Jay prepares to shoot, EDGAR DISAPPEARS AROUND
THE CORNER, and a HUGH TRUCK backs into his line of fire.
JAY FIRES, the TRUCK EXPLODES and Jay flies BACKWARDS, hurtling through
the air and CRASHING through the window of a car, his rear end right in
the woman driver's face.
When Jay looks up, Kay is standing before him. He yanks Jay out of the
car.
KAY
We do not discharge our weapons in view of
the public.
JAY
Can we drop the cover-up bullshit?! There's
an Alien Battle Cruiser that's gonna blow-up
the world if we don't...
KAY
There's always an Alien Battle Cruiser...or
a Korlian Death Ray, or...an intergalactic
plague about to wipe out life on this
planet, and the only thing that lets people
get on with their hopeful little lives is
that they don't know about it.
Kay gestures to a group of ONLOOKERS, drawn by the curious blasts from the
store. There's smoking rubble everywhere.
KAY
Don't worry about the bug. He's not leaving
town. We've got his ship.
After gesturing to the back of the Orkin van, where Edgar's spaceship is
neatly stowed, Kay pulls out his cell phone.
KAY
(into phone)
Zed, we're gonna need a containment crew
down here at McDougal, south of Houston.
As Kay puts away his phone, turns to Jay
KAY
All right, kid. The Arquillians want the
galaxy, whatever the hell that means. We
need help. A professional. Someone with
years of experience in intergalactic
politics. I just hope the little prick
hasn't skipped town.
CUT TO:
The tow truck SQUEALS to a halt at a curb.
EDGAR gets out and walks away,
fast, CURSING under his breath. He rants, livid, thinking hard. As he
passes a newsstand, he grabs the NEWS VENDOR by the collar.
EDGAR
Where do you keep your dead?
VENDOR
(thinks)
I don't have any dead.
EDGAR
Where?!
VENDOR
I don't know, the city morgue!
Edgar shoves him away roughly. But before he leaves, his eye catches a
postcard display marked "LANDMARKS OF THE NEW YORK CITY AREA." Edgar
stares, fascinated, but we don't see what he's looking at. He reaches out
and picks up a color postcard.
He raises it to his face, thinking, then shoves it in his pocket and
hurries off.
CUT TO:
Kay's LTD SCREECHES to a halt in front of the kiosk on Orchard Street. JAY
and KAY leap out and Jay spots the VENDOR, closing up the shop. He's
wearing a dirty cardigan, watch cap, and fingerless gloves, his face
aquiver with ticks and mannerisms. He has a small dog in front of him.
Jay rolls his eyes as they step up to the counter.
JAY
Of course that guy's an alien. That's gotta
be the worst disguise I've ever seen.
A voice answers him, but not the Vendor's.
FRANK THE PUG
You don't like it, you can kiss my furry
little butt.
Jay looks down. The voice is coming from the dog. This is FRANK THE PUG.
Kay approaches, motioning to Jay to make sure no one hears.
KAY
You busy, Frank?
FRANK THE PUG
Sorry, Kay, I can't talk right now, my
ride's leaving in --
Kay grabs Frank. He yelps like, well, a dog.
KAY
Call the pound. We got a stray.
FRANK THE PUG
Hey! Get your paws off me!
PASSERBYS glare at Kay, who appears to be seriously mistreating this poor
little dog. Jay tries to explain.
JAY
The, uh...dog owes my friend some money.
KAY
(to Frank)
Arquillians and bugs. What do you know?
FRANK THE PUG
I know nothing.
KAY
Not a thing?
Kay shakes Frank the Pug, trying to force an answer.
FRANK THE PUG
Stop it. Okay, okay. Rosenberg wasn't some
two-bit Arquillian. He was the guardian of
a galaxy. They thought he would be safe
here on earth.
KAY
And the bug had other plans.
FRANK THE PUG
The galaxy is the best source for subatomic
energy in the universe. If the bugs get
their slimy claws on it, kiss the
Arquillians goodbye.
JAY
Ask him about the belt.
KAY
(to Frank)
Rosenberg said something about a galaxy on
"Orion's belt." What's he talking about,
Frank?
FRANK THE PUG
Beats me.
Kay shakes Frank the Pug once more.
JAY
(to a person passing by)
They're rehearsing a ventriloquist act.
FRANK THE PUG
The galaxy is here.
KAY
Here?
JAY
The galaxy is hundreds of millions of stars
and planets? How's it here?
If a dog can smirk, Frank does.
FRANK THE PUG
You humans, when're you gonna learn that
size doesn't matter? Just 'cause something's
important, doesn't mean it's not very, very
small.
KAY
How small?
FRANK THE PUG
Tiny. Like the size of a marble. Or a jewel.
Now if you'll excuse me, I need to be walked
before the flight.
Kay lets go of Frank, turns to Jay, who is lost in thought.
KAY
(to Frank the Pug)
Get out of here.
(then to Jay)
The galaxy's here. It's not on Orion's belt.
Jay suddenly notices Frank the Pug bark at a cat farther down the
sidewalk.
JAY
Kay...
CUT TO:
Jay and Kay barrel through town.
JAY
So two galaxies have been fighting for
years. And the only people who've been
benefiting are a race of creatures called
bugs. Then the two galaxies decide to make
peace...and the bugs send this guy down to
make sure the fighting never stops.
KAY
By killing the emissaries, and stealing the
galaxy they've been fighting about.
JAY
And if we don't get it back before he
leaves the planet...we're history.
KAY
We're not even history. 'Cause history
implies there's someone around to remember
it.
Kay's LTD pulls to a stop in front of the morgue and JAY and KAY jump out.
JAY
I'll handle this one, you wait outside.
KAY
What the hell for?
JAY
Because all we have to do is walk in and
get a cat, it's not that hard. But if you
go in, you're gonna lay your Jack Webb on
her and flash your brain ray in her face
and she's gonna end up with leukemia or
some shit. The woman's a doctor, she
doesn't need you erasing half her med
school classes. Take me five minutes.
And he continues into the morgue, leaving Kay waiting outside.
KAY
Two minutes!
EDGAR, still clutching LAUREL, EXPLODES up over a railing.
Nobody looks twice as Edgar, dragging Laurel (with his arm over her
mouth), races toward the nearby busy Manhattan Street.
EDGAR, with LAUREL, RUNS right in front of a CAB, which screeches to a
halt inches from them. The CABBIE sticks his head out and YELLS something
in an unknown language. And KEEPS yelling as --
Edgar reaches through the passenger side and pulls the Cabbie out the door
(cigarette and wooden seat-beads and all).
The Cab Driver is still yelling as Edgar leaps in, pushing Laurel in
before him, leaving her behind the wheel.
He removes a POSTCARD -- the one he took from the display on the
newsstand.
EDGAR
Take me here.
LAUREL
What???
Edgar just cranks the car into gear -- opening his mouth and swallowing
the icon -- and in so doing revealing a TRIPLE ROW OF SERRATED BUG-TEETH,
he SLAMS HIS FOOT on the gas pedal.
Laurel's head snaps back as the car rocks forward. She has no choice, but
to grab the wheel and start steering as --
The car screeches out into traffic, swerving wildly as Laurel is forced to
make a 90-degree turn. The car fishtails wildly, swiping an oncoming car
as it straightens and heads into the traffic.
The furious Cab Driver runs off after it, still yelling as he disappears
around the corner.
A second later, KAY and JAY rush out into the street. The cab is nowhere
to be seen. Jay runs into the street, noticing the wooden beads, the
ripped pine-scented green deodorizer, and the still-burning cigarette.
JAY
They're in a cab.
And Jay starts running down the street, where DOZENS of cabs are waiting
at the intersection.
He's running from cab to cab, pounding on windows,
scaring the living shit out of people --
JAY
Hey! Laurel!? Hey!
-- but Laurel and Edgar are nowhere to be found. Up ahead the light turns
green and the tide of taxis wash away, leaving Jay on the street. He turns
as a car screeches up behind him, its headlights shining in his eyes. As
it gets closer, Jay sees it's Kay in the LTD.
KAY
Stop wasting time. He's not getting off the
planet in a cab.
CUT TO:
-- the real-live twin towers on the actual fairgrounds in Flushing
Meadows. A taxi SCREECHES to a halt at the edge of a fence a hundred yards
away. EDGAR shoves LAUREL out through the driver's door and follows behind
her, still holding his weapon on her.
EDGAR
You're coming with me.
LAUREL
What?! Why?!
EDGAR
It's a long trip. I'll need a snack.
And he shoves her ahead of him, off in the direction of the space ships.
Behind him, abandoned on the front seat of the cab, we finally see the
front of the postcard he's been carrying around. "FLUSHING MEADOWS, SITE
OF THE 1964 WORLD'S FAIR," it says, with a distinctive photograph of the
spaceships.
So that's how he knew.
CUT TO:
Nighttime now, and the city hums along, just another Thursday night.
The
clock in Columbus Circle says it's 7:45.
TVs in the window of an appliance store show a rerun of "Cheers." PEOPLE
laugh.
The news ticker in Times Square announces the latest shattering news:
RAIN LIKELY -- TEMPS DROP TO 60'S
EARTHLINGS pass left and right, blissfully unaware of their impending
doom.
CUT TO:
KAY and JAY leap into Kay's LTD and SLAM the doors. Kay jams the key in
the ignition, the car ROARS to life, and he turns to Jay.
KAY
Whaddya say we bag us some bug?
He hits the gas and the car ROCKETS away from the curb.
The LTD tears through the city.
The LTD races through the tunnel at top speed. It's clear driving for a
few seconds, but then they round a bend --
-- and there's a traffic jam up ahead.
As the LTD rockets toward the traffic jam up ahead, it begins to evolve,
its shape actually changing. The sides and back extend as some sort of
endoskeleton pushes the "normal" panels out. It becomes a larger, wirier
machine, held together by an elaborate series of mechanical muscles and
metallic tendons.
Kay's car hurtles toward certain death in the traffic jam, but at the last
possible moment it swerves off to the side, a SUCKING SOUND coming from
underneath it.
Instead of banging off the wall of the tunnel, the LTD actually clings to
it. It swerves up, onto the wall and hangs there, racing by the traffic
below.
It keeps going, turning all the way over and driving upside down, wheels
clinging to the roof of the tunnel.
From outside the car, we watch it rocket along on the roof of the tunnel.
We can hear KAY'S VOICE as he goes on. And on.
KAY
Yeah, it's harder and harder to smoke
anywhere these days. Hell, I suppose I
should quit. I've tried. Never took,
though. I'm beginning to think I lack
self-control.
And they disappear out the other end of the tunnel --
Approaching a toll booth, the LTD shoots across nine lanes of traffic and
through the only open booth, SHATTERING the gate. Traveling at about two
hundred miles an hour, Kay nonchalantly flips a token out the window --
-- and it CHINKS in the basket as their taillights disappear.
CUT TO:
EDGAR climbs the outside of the landing tower of one of the space ships,
pushing LAUREL up ahead of him, headed for the saucer at the top.
LAUREL
Come on, let me go, you don't want to eat
me. I'm a very important person on my
planet. Like a queen. A goddess, even.
There are those who worship me, yes. I'm
not trying to impress you with this, I'm
just letting you know. It could start a
war.
EDGAR
Good. War means food for my family, all
seventy-eight million of them. That's a lot
of mouths to feed, your highness.
LAUREL
You're a wonderful dad.
And with that she KICKS him squarely in the face. He reels, momentarily
losing his grip on her. She takes advantage of the moment and FLINGS
HERSELF out, into the air.
Edgar flails, but she is beyond his reach. She falls, tumbling through the
air --
-- and lands in the branches of a tree. She hits hard, the branches
rattling, and reaches out and hangs on for dear life, high above the
ground.
Above, Edgar just keeps climbing.
Over at the fence, the LTD comes to a looooong, skidding stop at the
fairgrounds.
AT THE TRUNK, JAY and KAY flip open the trunk and scarf up whatever
weapons look most dangerous. Kay grabs a black box, UNSNAPS a row of
latches, and opens it, revealing --
-- the most wicked-looking shotgun on the planet.
Three feet long, triple-barreled, over and under and under, plus a pump
action reloader on top of a storage clip for a dozen more shells. The
shells themselves are solid, glistening like polished steel. Kay loads up
the clip.
JAY
You know how to work that?
Kay pumps it once, with extreme confidence.
KAY
No idea whatsoever.
He SLAMS the trunk, revealing the flying saucers sitting atop their
columns in the distance.
KAY (CONT'D)
Let's bag us some bug.
As if on cue, one of the saucers begins to HUM. Then it starts to spin,
faster and faster. The ship begins to rise.
JAY
Oh, shit.
Laurel sits in her tree, watching with amazement.
At Shea Stadium, a Mets game is in progress. Behind the home plate side,
the flying saucer silently rises up in the night sky, plainly visible.
But at that very moment, the batter CRACKS into a fastball, hard. The
crowd rises to its feet, SHOUTING, staring out at center field, where the
ball is headed.
All eyes in the house are on the Mets' CENTER FIELDER, except for his
eyes, which are on the flying saucer behind home plate. His eyes widen,
his jaw drops --
-- and the catchable ball sails over his head, THUDDING into the wall
behind him. The crowd BOOS viciously.
Kay raises the weapon he took from the trunk; looks over at Jay.
KAY
Set it to pulsar level five, sub-sonic
implosion factor --
JAY
What?
KAY
Press the little green button, on three.
Jay raises his weapon; they press their green buttons.
KAY (CONT'D)
One...two...
They pull their triggers.
For a moment, nothing happens, as if it were a misfire. But then, there is
a VACUUM WHUMP, like all the air in the immediate area being sucked into a
space the size of a dime, and a tremendous shock wave rolls out from the
barrel of the guns.
Jay and Kay are sucked to the ground by the bizarre force, THUDDING to
their stomachs like magnets to a refrigerator.
The shock waves wrinkle across the open space between them and the ship,
then it HITS the ship --
-- and it too is sucked back down. Hurtling back toward them.
She flinches as the flying saucer shoots overhead.
The saucer CRASHES through the Unisphere, an enormous steel globe, and
THUDS to the earth, CRASHING through brush, dirt and rock...
Jay and Kay come to their feet...
In front of them, the dust clears... Trees uprooted, stones and dirt
thrown everywhere...a dumpster has been cast to their left...
And the saucer is there, embedded in the earth, tipped off-kilter in a
mound of debris...
A hatch comes up...revealing Edgar, walking slowly toward them, with
contained fury.
EDGAR
You don't get it. I've won. It's over.
KAY
You are under arrest for violating number
4-1-53 of the Tycho accord. Please hand
over any galaxy you might be carrying.
EDGAR
You milk-suckers! You don't matter! In a
few seconds you won't even be matter!
KAY
Move away from the vehicle and put your
hands on your head.
He pumps the gun for emphasis.
EDGAR
Put my hands on my head?
Edgar stares at him. Then flexes his arms, still encased in flesh. His
giant pincers RIP free of the rotting skin.
He extends both pincers to the sides, and, my God, his reach must be
twelve feet across.
Now the skin and clothes on Edgar's legs begins to CRACK and SHRED. They
BURST APART, revealing two hideous, doubled-over insect legs. The bug
raises himself aloft on his legs.
He sucks in a deep breath of air, and now the rest of the Edgar suit goes
the way of the arms and legs. The torso EXPLODES in great rendering of
cloth and skin, and finally
Edgar's head simply BURSTS apart, SPATTERING against the walls. Edgar now
reveals himself as he really is: a hairy, bug-like exoskeleton, a scaly
tail with a long stinger, a head like a cobra with elliptical eyes and a
small nose, and two horse-like feet with three toes each.
He raises his pincers in the air, resting them on his head. The GALAXY
hangs on a chain around his neck.
BUG
Like this?
Kay and Jay pump their guns and aim at the Bug.
Suddenly the Bug SPITS. And a HUGE, SLIMY WAD OF GOO shoots from him and
engulfs both shotguns. The Bug snorts it back, tearing them from Jay and
Kay's grasp, then swallowing them.
Jay and Kay have only a second to react before --
The Bug SWIPES at them with the back of his clawed hand, like someone
brushing aside a gnat -- and SENDS THEM FLYING FIFTEEN FEET IN THE AIR.
She flinches as she sees them hit the ground. She starts to climb the
tree.
Jay and Kay hit the ground with loud grunts.
JAY
That did not go at all like I had planned.
They look up to see the Bug moving for the second tower -- and the second
flying saucer. Kay gets to his feet.
KAY
This guy's really starting to bug me.
Kay starts walking after the Bug.
KAY
Whatever happens, Jay, don't let him get on
that ship.
JAY
Where are you going?
KAY
Getting my gun back.
JAY
What!?
Kay steps forward and yells at the departing Bug.
KAY (CONT'D)
Hey, Bug!
The Bug just keeps moving toward the ladder.
KAY (CONT'D)
I'm talking to you, Bug! You know how many
of your kind I've swatted with a newspaper?
The Bug turns toward Kay. Kay steps up to him, the small human facing off
against the giant alien hug.
She quietly makes it to the ground -- hurries off to the darkness of the
woods.
Kay has himself in the Bug's face, its dripping fangs inches from Kay's
face.
KAY
You're just a smear on the sports page to
me, you slimy, gut-sucking, intestinal
parasite! Eat me!
The Bug reacts -- cranks open its massive jaws with a deafening HISS,
lunges forward, and sucks Kay into his mouth.
The Bug straightens up to its full height and throws his head back. Kay
slides down the Bug's throat, bending it sideways as he kicks and SCREAMS
his way down into its abdomen.
JAY looks on, in stunned horror...
AS THE BUG TURNS TO JAY AND STRETCHES TO ITS FULL HEIGHT and lets loose a
HIDEOUS SCREAMING HOWL OF TRIUMPH.
Laurel is still watching.
Jay watches as the Bug continues its HOWL OF TRIUMPH...He feels totally
defeated. But...
He can hardly believe his eyes as he looks down at the Bug's stomach...
CLOSE ON BUG'S STOMACH. Through the leathery pouch of the Bug's stomach,
we can just make out the distended outline of the two atomizers...and just
a few inches from it, a HUMAN HAND is reaching toward the gun... KAY!
Jay knows what he has to do. He picks up a good-sized chunk of concrete
dislodged by the crashing saucer and hurls it at the Bug.
JAY
Hey! Come over here and try that!
The concrete THUNKS off the Bug's shell -- he doesn't seem to notice; just
keeps moving.
Jay picks up a twisted metal pole and runs at the Bug.
JAY
Stop right there, or I'll start wailing on
your waxy, pointed ass!
Jay starts pounding on the Bug with the metal pole.
The Bug grabs the metal pole and yanks it out of Jay's hands. He swings at
Jay -- Jay dodges the blow and falls to the grass.
The Bug slices down with razor-sharp claws at Jay --
-- Jay rolls out of the way, just as the mean-looking claws dig into the
grass.
Jay rolls right underneath the Bug's legs. His hand falls on something in
the grass -- another piece of debris, a sharp metal spike, gleaming like a
dagger. He grabs the metal spike and looks up at the Bug's apparently
vulnerable underbelly, right above him.
He grabs the spike with both hands and is about to thrust the spike up,
into the Bug's gut, when;
The Bug bends its head down between its legs.
BUG'S POV of Jay there, upside-down from this perspective, lurking between
the Bug's legs.
The Bug opens its jaws and SNAPS at Jay -- who propels himself backward
out of harm's way.
The Bug starts climbing the tower. Jay howls in frustration.
JAY
What are you, afraid of me? Come on! Stand
and fight like an arthropod!
In frustration, Jay screams and throws himself on the Bug, hanging onto
its back, trying to drag it down.
JAY (CONT'D)
You want a piece of this, huh?! Maybe
you're a badass in your hive, but this is
New York City. You're just another tourist
here!
The Bug flicks him off with his tail -- sending him SAILING twenty feet
through the air.
Jay CRASHES into the dumpster, landing on a heap in front of the garbage.
But, scratched and beat-up, Jay still doesn't quit -- he stands to yell at
the Bug, extending his arm at the creature.
JAY
You're messing with the wrong species, Bug --
He notices something on his arm...a cockroach running down his sleeve. He
flicks it off...
Looks down at the ground...sees another roach...looks over to the dumpster
behind him...there are more of them...a whole mob, in fact...fifty or
sixty of the critters, climbing out of a rusted hole in the dumpster...
Jay has one last desperate idea...He kicks at the dumpster -- part of the
side is rusted paper thin and it kicks apart and crumbles to pieces.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF ROACHES pouring forth from the dumpster, crawling
like a black glittering river, away from the garbage...
Jay leaps to his feet and moves to the glistening mob of insects...
JAY
Hey, Bug!
CLOSE ON JAY'S FOOT as he steps on the roach.
CRUNCH.
ON THE BUG as he flinches on the ladder -- he hates that sound.
ON JAY. He smiles.
JAY (CONT'D)
If I'm not mistaken, that was a cousin of
yours.
He knows he's getting to him. He steps toward the Bug -- moving his foot
over another roach.
CRUNCH! He crushes another one.
JAY (CONT'D)
Whoa! That had to hurt. And, what d'you
know, here's your old Uncle Bob!
He steps forward again -- CRUNCH!
ON THE BUG. He turns around, anger burning in his eyes.
Jay keeps moving toward the Bug, finding new roaches to tread on -- holds
his foot over another one.
JAY
What's that? Can you hear what he's saying?
'Help me! Help me!'
CRUNCH. [ON] THE BUG as he starts climbing down the tower and moving
toward Jay.
ON JAY. They are moving toward each other in a show down -- Jay moves on,
poising his foot over another roach.
JAY
Ooh! There's a pretty one. That one looks
kinda familiar, don't you think? I know who
that is!
The Bug is right over Jay now, jaws dripping ready to gobble him up.
BUG
Don't do that!
Jay stares right back at the Bug. Inside, he sees Kay's hand, closing
around the trigger of the shotgun. He brings it around, pointing up,
straight at the Bug's head.
JAY
That's your Momma!
He moves to CRUNCH the roach -- The Bug moves to chomp Jay -- Jay stares
up at him, unflinching...
JAY (CONT'D)
Didn't she ever teach you not to bite off
more than you can chew?
and at that very moment...
Kay BLASTS a hole right in the middle of the Bug's midsection. The front
of the Bug's thorax EXPLODES in a shower of bug juice all over Jay.
The Bug flies into two pieces -- the butt end sailing one way; the head
flying behind Jay.
Kay falls out of the Bug, in a mess of goo, gasping for breath, dropping
the atomizer from his slippery fingers.
The other gun sails off into the darkness.
The ICON drops to the ground, rolls over to Jay's feet, and CLATTERS to
rest like a silver dollar on a barroom floor.
He calmly bends down and picks it up. Jay is pissed and starts in on Kay.
JAY
You son of a --
Kay holds up a finger in a 'wait a minute' gesture -- pulls out his pocket
phone and hits a number.
KAY
Zed. Get a message to the Arquillians.
We
have the galaxy.
Kay flips the phone closed.
KAY
You were saying?
JAY
Getting eaten!? That was your plan!?
KAY
(shrugs)
Worked.
As they argue, behind them, unseen, THE FRONT HALF OF THE BUG RAISES
ITSELF UP on its forearms, eyes gleaming with hate, jaws dripping -- ready
to lower itself onto Kay and Jay.
JAY
After I got the shit beat out of me!
KAY
And I almost got digested. It goes with the
job.
JAY
You coulda told me what you were doing.
KAY
There wasn't time, sport!
HISSS! The Bug attacks, swinging its head down on them. They turn to see
it, and just before the jaws snap down on their heads...
BOOM! The Bug's head explodes into a million bits. Bug juice showers down
everywhere, bucketsful of goo drenching Kay and Jay even further.
They turn to see...
LAUREL standing behind the dead Bug, the other atomizer in her hands, the
barrel smoking, the weapon and Laurel dripping the Bug innards.
LAUREL
Interesting job you guys got.
ON THE SKY. Bits of Bug juice still flying through the air.
Kay's LTD is parked outside Men in Black headquarters. LAUREL leans her
back against the car.
We see JAY and KAY walking away in the distance.
JAY
Look, I know we got rules, but she did just
bust the Bug for us.
And so maybe you
don't have to flashy thing her.
Kay pulls out the neuralyzer.
JAY
Who's she gonna tell, anyway? She only
hangs out with dead people.
KAY
Not her. Me.
(looking up at the sky)
They're beautiful, aren't they? The stars.
I never just look anymore and they're
beautiful.
JAY
Kay, you're scaring your partner.
KAY
I haven't been training a partner -- I've
been training a replacement.
JAY
Oh no, I can't do this job by myself.
LAUREL
(walking towards them)
Hey, guys, we're nowhere near my apartment.
We're not even on the right island.
KAY
Maybe you won't have to.
Kay starts dialing back the neuralyzer.
KAY
Days. Months. Years. Always face it
forwards.
He hands the neuralyzer to Jay. Taps his pocket. Indicates for him to put
his glasses on. Jay resists.
KAY
I've just been down the gullet of an
interstellar cockroach. That's one of a
hundred memories I don't want.
Jay takes the neuralyzer. Slips on his glasses.
KAY
See you around, sport.
Jay raises the neuralyzer. With a brilliant FLASH, the screen turns white.
JAY
No, you won't.
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON various tabloid headlines as a hand flicks through them. Here's
one:
Mets' Centerfielder Says:
"UFO MADE ME MISS HOME RUN BALL!"
And here's another one:
DETROIT HAS CAR THAT DEFIES GRAVITY!
Secret Tests in N.Y.'s Tunnel
And a third:
MAN AWAKENS FROM 30-YEAR COMA
Returns to Girl He Left Behind
A large photograph shows a smiling KAY, arm-in-arm with ELIZABETH RESTON,
his long-lost fiancee, in her back yard in Tempe, Arizona.
She holds a large bouquet of flowers, the same kind he brought but never
gave her thirty years ago.
JAY, who's reading the paper, smiles.
AT THE CURB, Jay hurries back to the LTD with the newspapers. ELLE,
(formerly Laurel), is waiting, leaning against the hood. Tailored black
suit. Black shoes. Short-cropped hair. The look never looked better.
ELLE
Zed called. The High Consulate of Regent-9
emissary wants floor seats to the Knicks --
Bulls game.
JAY
I'll talk to Dennis Rodman, it's his damn
planet.
ELLE
Let's roll.
Both car doors SLAM, Jay drops it in gear, and the LTD BLASTS away from
the curb.
The LTD is just one of many cars in a jam-packed Manhattan city block.
FROM UP IN THE CLOUDS
Manhattan itself is just part of a much larger urban and suburban sprawl.
FROM THE STRATOSPHERE
The east coast of the United States is just part of a much larger land
mass.
FROM THE EOSPHERE
North America is just a small portion of the planet Earth.
FROM SPACE
Earth is just a tiny ball in our solar system.
FROM THE MIDDLE OF THE MILKY WAY
Our solar system is just a few blips of light in a vast star field.
FROM OUTSIDE OUR GALAXY
The Milky Way is just a creamy spiral amid innumerable other creamy
spirals.
FROM THE OUTER REACHES OF THE UNIVERSE
There seems to be an edge to what we see, a curved border that seems to
close in on things around the perimeters, until everything that exists
seems to be contained in one tiny ball --
-- which is actually a marble resting on a strange-looking patch of red
dirt.
An ALIEN HAND reaches down and flicks the marble, sending it skittering
and bouncing across the dirt, where it CLICKS into a dozen other big blue
balls just like it.
FADE OUT.
Men in Black
Writers : Lowell CunninghamEd Solomon
Genres : ActionComedySci-Fi
User Comments
Back to IMSDb