An IRATE WOMAN speaks into camera:
IRATE WOMAN
They always put it that way, but
well, all it means, you know, is
every fourth American woman's never
satisfied. That's it. I never am --
have been, you know...
A COOL WOMAN speaks into camera:
COOL WOMAN
This, this image of the, the man
eating woman. It isn't our
increasing demands. I think it's
the shrinking American male...
A SAD WOMAN speaks into camera:
SAD WOMAN
No, I never had, well, whatever it
is you call it. But the hours he
works, I can't blame him...
Joe leaves the hotel, carrying his suitcase.
The song ends as Joe comes from the cafeteria "... that
brightened our pathway a while."
JOE
Tough tiddy, ladies, you had your
chance.
From a high angle -- Joe starts his long walk toward the bus
depot along the street of a small Western town struggling to
urbanize itself. The click-clack-click of his boots is loud
but somehow lonely The radio at his ear drones grain prices
on the Commodity change. Joe's pace slows as he passes...
... a gilt-lettered sign in the window, glittering in the
sun, momentarily hiding the fact that the shop is deserted.
Joe grins as he hears remembered sounds and voices incomplete
flashes, more significant in tone than content a girl
giggling sexily -- "Keep your meat hooks off my beauty
operators, sugar" -- tinkling noises of a busy beauty parlor
- Sally Buck singing "Hush, little baby, don't say a word,
Grammaw gonna buy you a mockingbird..."
... a shift of light revealing a row of tarnished driers, a
broken mirror, a FOR RENT sign in the window. Joe turns
toward the bus depot, radio pressed to his ear.
ANNOUNCER'S VOICE
Benson and Hedges One Hundreds
makes special awards from time to
time for anything that's longer
than anything...
JOE
Care to get out your yardstick,
gentlemen?
At the same moment, a recognizable variant of the "Big
Country" theme blares loud.
INTERCUT WESTERN FILM CLIP
Gary Cooper (or John Wayne) walks a frontier street.
High angle of the departing bus, intercut "Big Country"
fashion, alternating high shots with close-ups of the bus
wheals.
Through the bus windshield -- a dizzying montage of traffic
lines, arrows and signs as the bus sweeps around and up onto
the freeway.
The headlights of the bus flash past a huge sign, painted on
the slant roof of a barn: JESUS SAVES.
From a high angle -- the bus slows to a stop.
The bus streaks past a brightly-colored billboard -- IN NEW
YORK, A WELCOME AWAITS YOU AT THE TIMES SQUARE PALACE HOTEL!
A stunning view through the bus window past Joe's reflection.
JOE'S REFLECTION
Gonna swing my lasso and rope that
whole goddam island, yeah!
Drum majorettes leading the parade -- ticker tape and
confetti -- girls at skyscraper windows.
INTERCUT NEWSREEL CLIP
Charles Lindberg (or James Stewart) waving at the crowd.
Girls lining the piers -- flags, banners, bunting -- ship
horns, whistles, bells.
The bus suddenly surrounded by converging traffic, horns
honking, segueing into the noises of Times Square.
Flag draped, reading: WELCOME VETERANS.
Flapping in the wind -- WELCOME VETERANS!
The marquee announces TRANSIENTS WELCOME. O.S. a singing
radio station break blares "W-I-N-S NEW YORK..."
The sign flashes WINS "... ten-ten on your dial!" A torchy
woman's voice sings from a lonely echo chamber -- introducing
a love theme which will haunt Joe throughout the film.
As we saw it last, deserted, a FOR RENT sign in the window.
Joe's reflection appears, staring at himself, dressed in his
dishwasher's clothes.
JOE'S VOICE
After all them dishes are washed,
what?
JOE'S REFLECTION
Then they bring some more dishes
and I wash them and then I, uh,
sleep some and then wash some more
dishes and then I...
JOE'S VOICE
Say it, lover boy!
JOE'S REFLECTION
Die.
The torn fragments flutter down on the crowd -- a woman
brushing irritably at her hair -- a man grimacing, glancing
up -- a cop removing his hat to examine it.
From a low angle -- identical with the postcard photograph --
an unseen hand scrawls a huge X--- THIS IS ME. Camera zooms
up to a close-up of Joe at the window.
From on high -- as though Joe were watching himself -- the
Stetson moves through a crowd of Fifth Avenue shoppers...
... passing a glass bank, lady tellers counting money...
... passing a display of imported luxury cars...
... passing a window which features a single gem -- pausing
as horns blast O.S. and a mod blonde in a stalled sports car
motions to Joe -- she needs a push. Joe grins, glances at
himself in the window, runs a comb through his hair, then
turns back to see a cop helping the mod blonde.
Joe's heels drag as he walks a deserted block of luxury
apartment houses. O.S. The torchy woman's voice sings Joe's
love theme in counterpoint to the blasting horns, a siren, a
fire bell, a screech of brakes. Joe's spirits rise as he
hears the tic-tac-tic of high heels overtaking the heavy
click-clack-click of his boots. He adjusts his pace to arrive
at the corner at the same time as a smart and -- in Joe's
eyes -- very RICH LADY. Joe grins boyishly, holding his
Stetson over his heart.
JOE
Beg pardon, ma'am, I'm new here in
town, just in from Houston, Texas,
and looking for the Statue of
Liberty.
The delicate profile gives no signs of hearing. Joe follows
her to the parkway in the middle of the avenue. There she
stops and turns, neither friendly nor hostile.
RICH LADY
Were you looking? About the Statue
of Liberty?
JOE
Joking? No, ma'am. Oh no! I mean
business!
RICH LADY
I'm sorry. I thought you were --
never mind -- I've never actually
been there, but let me see, you
take the Seventh Avenue subway, I
think, to the end of the line...
JOE
You sure are a pretty lady.
The Rich Lady tries to frown, taken aback, blushing.
RICH LADY
You're not looking for the Statue
of Liberty at all.
JOE
No, ma'am, I'm not.
RICH LADY
Why, that's perfectly dreadful.
Aren't you ashamed of yourself?
A twinkle of amusement and sympathy reveals the age lines at
the corner of her eyes. Then she continues on quickly, just
as the light turns. Joe's view is blocked for a moment by
traffic, then he sees...
... the Rich Lady, newly aware of her flanks as she climbs
the steps of a brownstone and searches for her key. Still
from Joe's viewpoint, he sees himself move into frame and
follow the Rich Lady up the steps. The love theme swells O.S.
as the Rich Lady leads him into the house and closes the
door...
... leaving Joe standing alone on the parkway island,
surrounded by towering wealth. The love theme continues
over...
... a pair of high-heeled pink slippers, walking a miniature
poodle -- slowing slightly, reacting to Joe's cowboy boots as
they pass, pause and turn back.
CASS'S VOICE
Hurry up, Baby. Do um goody-goods
for Mama.
Joe grins, holding his hat over his heart as he approaches
CASS TREHUNE, a blonde lady in a tight black dress, with the
look of a movie star who wrecked her career with food.
JOE
Beg pardon, ma'am. I'm brand
spanking new to this town, come
from Houston, Texas, and hoping to
get a look at the Statue of
Liberty...
CASS
You're hoping to get a look at
what?
JOE
The Statue of Liberty.
CASS
It's up in Central Park, taking a
leak. If you hurry, you'll make the
supper show. Now get lost.
But as she turns, Cass winks, dimpling the corners of her
mouth, signaling Joe to follow her.
... the Mutual of New York tower flashes MONY!
JOE'S VOICE
Holy shee-it, this is a goddam
penthouse you got here, Cass, a
real goddam penthouse.
From a high angle, Joe walks away from the apartment house,
chorus continuing O.S. "... they say you are taking the
sunshine that brightened our pathway a while."
Joe has difficulty keening up with Ratso, who swings himself
along with surprising agility, his half skipping little gate
favoring one game leg.
RATSO
Look, with these chicks that want
to buy it, most of 'em are older,
dignified, right? Social register
types. They can't be trotting down
to Times Square to pick out the
merchandise. They need a middleman,
right? That's O'Daniel.
Joe hesitates as Ratso darts into traffic against a red
light, yelling unheard obscenities at a cab driver who blasts
his horn. Joe runs recklessly forward as Ratso slams the taxi
fender with his fist, pretending to be hit, falling into
Joe's arms. The taxi stops, halting traffic. Ratso, recovers,
strolls casually in front of the cab, biting his thumb at the
driver.
RATSO (CONT'D)
It is a crime, a stud like you
passing out double sawbucks to a
chick like that. With proper
management you should be taking
home fifty, a hundred bucks a day.
More if you wanta moonlight...
At,the corner of Central Park South, Ratso points toward a
young man with diamond cuff-links, sitting with a blue-haired
matron who puffs on a small cigar. Ratso waves jauntily at
the young man, raising his thumb and forefinger in a circle,
leaving the young man baffled as Ratso hurries Joe on.
RATSO
Him I placed with O'Daniel just two
weeks ago. And look. Not much of a
stud either, what I hear...
Ratso automatically checks the coin return boxes of the phone
booths they pass. Walking the park side of the street,
looking across at the limousines and taxis waiting outside
luxury hotels and apartment buildings.
JOE
Hey, listen, how about you take me
to mee this Mister O'Diddle bird
right now?
RATSO
Well, Joe, you're a nice guy, and
I'd be doing you both a favor, but
why? What'm I dragging my bum leg
all over town for? It's no picnic
and what for, for me myself, what?
Ratso stops opposite the Plaza hotel, pointing across at an
aristocratic blonde stepping out of a Rolls Royce.
RATSO (CONT'D)
Tomorrow when some piece like
that's scratching your back in a
Fifth Avenue townhouse, where'll
your pal Rizzo be? Nedicks.
JOE
Hold it, just hold it. You think
I'm that kinda sombitch? Just name
your cut, whatever you want, you
got it right now. Five? Ten, how's
that?
Joe peels a ten from his wallet and offers it to Ratso.
RATSO
Joe, please. You know what I'd ask
anyone else? Oh hell, tell you what
I'll do, I'll take the ten...
(he does)
... but when I hand you over to Mr.
O'Daniel, I'll have to have another
ten, Joe; just to like cover
expenses...
Camera moves slowly up the anonymous wall of a drab hotel,
following the line of dim red lights marking the fire exits.
RATSO'S VOICE
Name's Joe Buck. Cowboy. Just in
from Texas, don't know the ropes,
new to the city, but very promising
material, sir, and ready, if you
get what I mean. Fabulous. Right
away. What's that room number there
again?
Ratso bursts from the hotel, almost running as he disappears.
Sally Buck sings with the congregation while a rawboned
preacher stands in the river, preparing to immerse little
Joe.
O'DANIEL'S VOICE
Don't fight it, boy!
Camera becomes little Joe, glimpsing the fevered faces of
Sally Buck and the congregation singing on the riverbank,
just before being plunged under the river. O'Daniel's voice
reechoes, filtered through water.
O'DANIEL
Don't be frightened, son!
Joe runs in aimless panic, pushing through the crowd, pursued
by O'Daniel's voice and the singing congregation.
O'DANIEL
Don't run from Jesus!
Joe stops short as he sees the front page of a tabloid on a
newsstand. There is a picture of Joe being led away by two
deputies, under a headline ALABAMA MURDERER SHOTGUNS ELEVEN.
Joe searches the faces of the crowd, running forward suddenly
as he sees Jackie and the farmboy picked up by two men in a
large convertible. Joe chases the car to Eighth Avenue but
stops, frightened as he sees himself in multiple image on the
front of every newspaper displayed on a newsstand.
Colorful lights still flash seductive promise. The vertical,
lights on the MONY tower reach bottom and freeze momentarily.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH
Joe at his hotel window staring out blankly. Gun fire O.S....
Joe's radio is at his ear "... never too late to look great,
Ben's Bargain Basement's open 'till five a.m., miles and
miles of Western styles, worth more at any store, money talks
and nobody walks." For the first time, Joe is aware of the
other midnight cowboys lurking in doorways, the cruising
queens, the middle-age men in sport shirts. Joe moves on self
consciously as he sees a scar-faced policeman, unconsciously
massaging his night stick. Camera holds on a window display
of gag buttons, featuring NEW YORK WILL BREAK YOUR HEART,
BABY.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH
Joe soaking in the tub, eyes closed.
Joe's radio promises job opportunities for young men eighteen
to twenty-five in the U.S. Air Force. He stands with a crowd
staring up at a girl go-go dancing in the window of SERGEANT
PEPPER'S LONELY HEART CLUB.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH
Joe staring in the mirror. O.S. static over his love theme.
By work-light, the tarrier in metal helmet leans on a jack
hammer, beyond the sign DIG WE MUST, drowning out Joe's
radio.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH
Joe flexing his muscles in his jockey shorts while -- LIVE ON
TV SCREEN -- a physical culture personality finishes push-ups
and starts pitching his own extra protein bread.
Joe's radio continues the super-break commercial while a fry
cook flips flapjacks in the window.
But Joe's eyes are on a sign DISHWASHER WANTED. Joe looks up
and his eyes meet those of the young man scraping garbage
behind the counter. It's Joe.
JOE
Shee-it.
STILL PHOTOGRAPH
Joe sits in the hotel lobby, staring out at the street,
unable to concentrate on his comic book. On two-way radio, a
woman's voice giggles as she speaks, "When I can't sleep,
well, I just dial the time and listen to those old seconds
clicking by like, you know, counting sheep?"
Joe watches a young man hold a taxi door for an older lady,
at the same corner where Ratso waved to another young man.
The woman's predatory eyes linger momentarily on Joe before
she leads the young man into the Cafe. The two-way radio
continues over, "... that's what I do about insomnia."
JOE
Well, now, ma'am, next time you got
that feeling coming on, you dial
Joe Buck. I'll show you what to
do...
STILL PHOTOGRAPH
Joe straddles a chair, staring at a blank TV screen.
SINGING COMMERCIAL
Need a little easy money? It's E-Z.
Want a little easy cash? It's E-Z.
E-Z LOAN COMMERCIAL
As the jingle continues, we follow Joe and his radio into the
loan office, the depressing reality photographed and edited
in the style of a TV commercial:
JINGLE
Easy locations to get to
Easy ladies to greet you
Easy chairs to seat you
Easy payments to meet
Let E-Z set you
On Easy Street
Joe arrives confident
Harassed E-Z receptionist
Lines of uneasy customers
Desperate, angry faces
Reams of E-Z forms to fill
Clerk's sneer, says
Joe has to be kidding
Joe stands outside the hotel, stunned, seeing the bright
colored lights turn suddenly grey. The film continues in
black and white as Joe walks into the crowd.
The FOR RENT sign flapping in the wind.
Joe hurls the crumpled package into a DON'T BE A LITTERBUG
basket as he emerges from the subway, his radio at his ear.
The torchy voice belts his love song, merging with street
noises crying danger -- an ambulance, a burglar alarm, a
policeman's whistle -- the lights flashing lurid color for
the first time since Joe was locked out, no longer promising
but threatening, clashing, warning as...
... from a high angle, across the street, Joe joins the other
midnight cowboys, offering himself to all comers. His figure
is momentarily obliterated by traffic then...
... zooming in, we see Joe self-consciously trying to hide
the stain on his pants, embarrassed as a large sedan slows
then moves on to stop in front of a motorcycle freak. Joe is
briefly obliterated again by a passing police car...
... the receding flash of its turret light revealing Joe in
close conversation with a frightened young FAT BOY, whose
eyes plead for reassurance as Joe scowls.
From a high angle, only Joe's Stetson and radio can be seen
above a passing bus, its side panel advertising BILL BONNER'S
STRAIGHT LINE, A STRAIGHT TALK SHOW.
BONNER'S VOICE
Why call me, baby? If you want to
do it; just do it, don't talk about
it. Are we drunky? Feeling a little
sorry for ourselves maybe?
Joe appears in full figure as the bus passes. He stands
looking at the suitcases in a luggage shop window.
DESPERATE VOICE
Well, Bill, what I got thinking, I
didn't want the neighbors to have
to find me, this young couple with
the boy I want to have my cat, see,
Bill?
Joe's fist slams a fender violently, using Ratso's fake
injury trick to stop traffic, running across the street
toward...
... Ratso staring out at Joe, paralyzed in the act of
lighting a cigarette -- intercut in flashing close-ups -- Joe
outside the window, Ratso inside -- reflecting their
conflicting emotions -- Joe's murderous rage -- Ratso's panic
-- one almost subliminal flash of each revealing something
like pleasure at finding a long-lost friend...
Joe strides north, pretending he doesn't hear...
RATSO'S VOICE
Hey, wait up, for crissake!
... Ratso hop-skipping to overtake Joe at the traffic light.
JOE
Listen, keep away from me, hear?
You come near me again, I snatch
you bald-headed!
RATSO
I'm inviting you. I mean if you're
not located, I got a place. I'm
inviting you, goddamit.
JOE
You inviting shee-it.
A contractor's sign announces LUXURY APARTMENTS AVAILABLE in
high-rise co-op, under construction beyond a raw of tenements
with X's taped on the windows. Ratso's voice continues over
the click-clack-click of Joe's boots and the flip-flap-squeak
of Ratso's loafers as camera moves toward a condemned
building.
RATSO'S VOICE
The X on the window means the
landlord can't collect rent --
which is a convenience, hey? -- on
account of it's condemned.
A huge metal ball arcs on chain, demolishing a brick facade.
Joe facing the crowd, naked except for his boots.
Ratso wears a threadbare raincoat of faded black, several
sizes too large, as he shops with housewives at a sidewalk
vegetable stand -- elbowing his way through the ladies,
testing fruit, picking up vegetables and putting them back --
till the GREENGROCER spots him.
GREENGROCER
You! Out! Out! I told you, I calla
cops!
The other shoppers deliberately turn their backs, avoiding
involvement. As the Greengrocer grabs Ratso, Joe ambles into
the scene, wearing his dangerous little smile.
JOE
Hey, looka here, that ain't nice,
picking on a cripple...
Joe intervenes just long enough for Ratso to escape, then
ambles on, leaving the Greengrocer in frustrated fury. Camera
holds on a tray of coconuts.
An alley cat laps up the milk of the broken coconut.
Joe stands naked in the middle of traffic. A siren shrills.
Anastasia, catatonic in a hospital smock, moves toward Joe
like a sleepwalker, passing through him.
Joe and Ratso peer down through a basement bay window, into
the office of THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN ESCORT SERVICE --
endorsed by leading travel agencies and credit clubs offering
discreet companionship and personal guided tours in any
language. A large-busted matron, on a French phone, fills out
a memo and hands it to an immaculate young ESCORT, who slips
the memo into his topcoat pocket as he comes from the office
and hails a cab. Ratso darts forward, limping exaggeratedly,
holding the door, lifting the memo as he brushes off the
Escort's topcoat. The young man waves him away with out a
tip. Ratso slams the door and bites his thumb after the cab,
unfolding the memo as he joins Joe on the sidewalk.
RATSO
How do you like that? Cheap
bastard...
(reads, then)
I think we struck gold. This is one
high-class chick. The Barbizon for
Women!
The Mutual of New York tower flashes MONY.
A doorman helps a young lady into a limousine.
RATSO'S VOICE
Would you believe a whole goddam
hotel with nothing but lonely
chicks?
Joe and Ratso watch from across the street.
RATSO
Score once in that setup, the way
chicks talk, Christ...
Joe cracks his gum, tilts his hat, starts across the street.
RATSO (CONT'D)
Get the money! Remember Cass
Trehune? Cash! These rich bitches
write a check at night, call the
bank and stop payment in the
morning. Get the cash!
In Ratso's eyes -- as Joe enters the hotel -- its facade
suddenly wipes away to reveal rich ladies in negligee waiting
in every room.
Ratso warms his hands at a chestnut vendor's cart, seeing...
... zoom close-up, a lady in a window grabbing Joe.
Ratso sees Joe zip from room to room in wild animation.
Staring at a window display of Florida sportswear, Ratso's
imagination soars, seeing...
... Ratso, like a model in a travel poster, in gaudy sport
shirt, talking on the phone against a background of hotels...
... Ratso like James Bond, surrounded by bikinis, dictating
while girls serve coconut milk and massage his game leg...
... Ratso like George Raft, in evening clothes, running a
posh casino, flicking a coin...
... Ratso simply himself, dressed as he is, sitting on the
beach, at peace in the sun...
... the same identical picture with Joe sitting beside Ratso.
Ratso leans against the window, flipping a coin.
Miss Beecham is flushed with humiliation, the entire lobby
watching Joe in the hands of two bellboys.
JOE
I want my money, goddamit, you owe
me my money whether you get laid or
not, lady, shee-it!
The lights in the window suddenly switch off, blacking out
Florida. Ratso glances toward the growl of a siren O.S.
A police prowl car slows in front of the hotel. Ratso swings
across the street with incredible speed to meet Joe as he's
tossed onto the sidewalk. Ratso picks up the Stetson and
brushes it off, then helps Joe to his feet.
From a high angle -- the two figures move slowly along the
deserted avenue, their rhythmic musical duet growing more and
more faint in the distance, a broken grasshopper and a six
foot tarnished cowboy -- passing a tuxedo rental store, next
to a lighted sign -- TEMPERATURE IN MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA 89
DEGREES -- their pace slowing to a dead stop...
Joe and Ratso frozen in a narrow shaft of sunlight, watching
the huge metal ball demolish the building next door. O.S. a
radio announcer sells FROZEN SUNSHINE ORANGE JUICE.
Through the window -- Joe and Ratso watch the pawnbroker
examine Joe's radio, "Be healthier, wealthier, life can be
fine, when you drink Frozen" -- Sunshine is clicked off by
the pawnbroker.
Joe and Ratso warm themselves on the smoke and steam rising
from a subway grating -- watching two officials in fur
collared coats inspect the front of their X flat building.
Reading their doom, Joe and Ratso, continue on, disappearing
into the subway.
Joe stands alone, watching the midnight cowboys ply their
trade. Camera pulls back as Joe turns away and enters a store
front blood bank, offering ten dollars to blood donors.
INSERT
A huge hypodermic fills the frame, sucking Joe's blood. O.S.
Ratso coughs uncontrollably.
High angle -- Joe and Ratso cross an foot, chilled by wind,
neither wearing the sheepskin coat. The Queens riverfront and
factories appear cold and bleak, deserted on Sunday.
Camera moves into acres of tombstones, piled like low-rent
housing projects for the dead, the various faiths segregated
by crumbling boundaries.
JOE'S VOICE
Shee-it. I hate boneyards.
RATSO'S VOICE
So split. He ain't your goddam,
father.
Ratso leads Joe past a Negro family at a grave -- glances
around -- snatches an elaborate floral piece from a headstone
and hides it under his black raincoat as he darts toward a
low dividing wail and swings himself over into...
... an endless section of plain stone markers. Joe touches
his hat to two nuns, guiltily hurrying to overtake Ratso at
ibis father's grave, indistinguishable from the other graves
except for the name on the headstone. Ratso places the floral
piece on the grave with almost absurd solemnity. Joe laughs.
JOE
Kee-rist, you sure are one twisty
little bastard, Ratso.
RATSO
The name's Rico, at my own father's
grave, a man deserves some respect.
JOE
Respect shee-it! You even steal
flowers for his grave.
RATSO
Can he smell the difference, eh?
Joe reads from the ribbon on the floral display.
JOE
Well, uh, he dam well know he ain't
'be-loved Aunt Winifred'.
RATSO
He can't read. Even dumber than
you. Couldn't write his own name. X
-- that's what it ought to say
there on that goddam headstone. One
big lousy X like our flat.
Condemned. By order of City Hall.
Joe is frowning, standing at the,headstone, momentarily
depressed with an undefined sorrow.
JOE
My Grammaw Sally Buck, she died
without letting me know.
Through the window, past the FOR RENT sign, the tarnishing
driers are lined up like tombstones.
Joe frowns, puzzled, as Ratso pulls out a black skullcap,
leading Joe toward a group of professional mourners,
whispering:
RATSO
Just keep your hat on and cry a
little. They tip you when it's
over.
Joe and Ratso join the mourners as the funeral moves to the
grave, Ratso mouthing an authentic double-talk...
... Joe standing self-consciously, aware of the covert
glances of the other mourners, automatically reaching up to
remove his hat, remembering when Ratso elbows him in the
ribs...
... Joe scowling, tight-lipped, embarrassed by the tip that
is thrust in his hand.
Snow swirls in the aureole of a street light as Joe and Ratso
run, heads lowered, turning into...
Joe leans out of the taxi window, waving his Stetson,
bellowing at the snow.
JOE
Whoopee ti yi yo...!
Ratso makes his way slowly from the building to the curb,
whistling between his teeth sharply, hailing a cab. The cab
slows to a stop. Then the driver sees Ratso, shifts into gear
and drives on. Ratso bites his thumb after the cab, rests for
a moment on the lamp post, then starts painfully inching his
way along the deserted street.
Joe loiters outside a gag headline print shop, his eyes
following a man in homburg and chesterfield.
Joe lingers momentarily, identifying with the violence in a
jazz drummer, his eyes searching for a pickup.
Towny's face appears huge at Joe's shoulder.
TOWNY
This is my first night in town and
I'll consider it a ghastly omen
clouding my entire ten days, if you
don't consent to have dinner with
me. Anywhere you like...
Towny's mouth continues speaking at an incredible rate, but
his words are drowned out momentarily by the grinder of a
sanitation truck, chewing up a discarded Christmas tree with
tinsel clinging to it. Towny is still talking when they've
passed the truck.
TOWNY (CONT'D)
... never mind how you're dressed.
They know me. I'll say you're with
the rodeo. There's always a rodeo
in New York, dammit. Besides, you
look very elegant...
Joe hardly notices O'Daniel on a far cornet, his whining
scarcely audible.
"Ye are the salt of the earth, Jesus said, but if the salt
hath lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted?"
TOWNY
But, dammit all, I just remembered,
we'll have to eat in my room
because I have this phone call
coming at nine-thirty...
Ratso sits an a stoop while Joe hails a cab.
Joe lifts Ratso from the taxi and carries him inside.
JOE'S VOICE
Listen, Towny, did I mention I got
a sick kid?
The bus driver revs the powerful engine, shifting gears.
The bus roars into the tunnel.
The bus tires sing as it speeds South.
The metal grating rings as the bus soars onto it.
The bus passes a Florida hotel sign too swiftly to read it.
The bus is parked in the distance. Joe comes from a clothing
store, bare-headed, wearing plain slacks and sport-shirt. He
carries the boots, Stetson and cowboy suit in one hand, a
bundle under his arm. He dumps his cowboy regalia in the
trash bin of a sandwich stand and calls to the WAITRESS.
JOE
Couple crullers'n coffee to go.
The Waitress draws coffee, wraps crullers.
WAITRESS
Where you from?
JOE
New York.
Joe pays. She smiles, gives him change. Joe smiles, starts on
toward the bus, hardly aware that he has accomplished
something rare and remarkable for Joe -- a simple human
contact without fear or threat, a pleasant everyday
happening.
Palm trees are streaking past the window. The sun is glaring
hot. A group of kids in bare feet and straw hats wave to the
bus as it passes.
