Blue sky, a few puffs of cloud, pierced by slanting rays of
sunlight. Late afternoon on a perfect day.
SUPER TITLE: "HOUSTON, TEXAS. JULY 4, 2020."
As we hear, after a few more beats, an ASTRONAUT'S VOICE.
PHIL
T minus ten, nine, eight, start
ignition sequence, five, four, three,
two, one, ignition... Liftoff!
A tiny red streak zips into the sky, then bursts with a faint,
ludicrous POP. A bottle rocket. We hear CHILDREN'S LAUGHTER,
excited SHOUTS.
DESCENDING, we see PHIL OHLMYER, late 20's, kneeling, with a
gaggle of eager CHILDREN around him. Phil, an astronaut, has
got an impressive array of fireworks lined up, and is using
an empty longneck as his launching tube.
CHILDREN
(all at once)
My turn! My turn! No, I was next!
No, me! Uncle Phil, Uncle Phil, can
I do one? I want to do one!
PHIL
Guys, guys, please! This is risky
stuff here. And I'm a highly trained
professional.
Derisive GROANS from the kids, more SHOUTS. Phil grins.
There's little danger NASA will ever use him on a recruiting
poster: he's messy, very hyper. Phil waves his hands for
silence.
PHIL
Okay, okay! Uncle Phil will launch
another booster...
Another astronaut, RENEE COTE, a tall, very fit French woman,
is walking by with a fresh six-pack. She tosses a beer and
Phil catches it.
PHIL
...just as soon as he completes his
fuel intake.
ANGLE FOLLOWS COTE
Who grins, walking away from Phil and the kids, as we begin
to get a better sense of the scope of this party. We are in
the big back yard of a middle-class home in a Houston suburb.
DOZENS OF PEOPLE - astronauts, NASA personnel, and their
families -- are gathered around picnic tables or spread-out
blankets. Lots of red, white and blue bunting, lots of
balloons. We hear snatches of MUSIC, mostly country-flavored,
from dueling boomboxes. Futuristic Frisbees are being tossed
about. A banner, strung between trees, reads "BON VOYAGE,
MARS ONE!!!"
WILLIS
It'll take us six months just to get
to Mars. Another year on the surface,
then six months back. That's two
years...
Passing the banner, Cote lobs a beer to another astronaut,
NICHOLAS WILLIS, who snags it neatly. He's got his other arm
around the waist of a PRETTY GIRL. As Cote moves OUT OF FRAME,
ANGLE LINGERS on these two. Willis, a very young astronaut,
early 20s, is recruiting poster material, and knows it all
too well.
WILLIS
I guess what I'm trying to say is,
since this is my last night on Earth,
it's gonna be a very precious memory
to me. Y'know?
PRETTY GIRL
Nice try, Nick.
As the Pretty Girl slips out of his grasp, laughing, and
walks away, Willis shrugs philosophically. He pops open his
beer, swigs it.
ANGLE FOLLOWS THE PRETTY GIRL As she swerves around an open-
pit barbecue, where other ASTRONAUTS are gathered. Cote has
paused here, too, distributing the last of her beers. SERGEI
KIROV, a Russian cosmonaut, is watching some kids nearby as
they play a game of wiffle ball. He turns, grinning beerily
at the chef.
KIROV
Hey, Woody, our Mars One crew won't
be heading back to Earth till ten
days after you guys land at our base
camp with Mars Two. That's a pretty
good long rendezvous.
WOODY BLAKE, late 30s, is a big, rangy guy in a cowboy hat
over a Hawaiian shirt and a "KISS THE CHEF" apron. An entire
pig is turning on a spit over the flames, and Woody is basting
this as he smiles at Malik.
WOODY
What are you suggesting, Sergei?
KIROV
Maybe you should bring a baseball
bat. Yes? American baseball? Our two
crews could have ourselves a little
Solar System Series.
WOODY
Please. Half you guys are foreigners.
We'd crush you.
KIROV
No, no, we have equal crews. Three
men, one woman. Same handicap.
He grins teasingly at Cote, who makes a face at him.
WOODY
Easy now, you're talking about my
wife.
(seeing her approach)
And Terri just happens to be one
helluva shortstop.
DR. TERRI FISHER, early 30s, passes by with a platter of
corn-on-the-cob. Short, sturdy body, a face made attractive
by its alert, questing intelligence. She pauses to kiss
Woody's cheek; there's a wonderful, sexy spark between them.
Then she glances at Kirov, all business now.
TERRI
Fast pitch, no steals, batter calls
his own strikes. Thousand bucks make
it interesting?
He's a bit rattled by her cockiness, and looks at Cote, who
smiles, nods her cool agreement.
COTE
Eh bien. Winner take all.
TERRI
Good.
(smiles sweetly at
Kirov)
Bring some balls.
The other men ooooh at this, busting on Kirov and Cote, as
Terri moves on. Woody, watching her go, has a thousand-watt
grin.
WOODY
You wanna know the sad part?
Technically I outrank her. But if we
want any peace at all on Mars Two,
I'm gonna be saying a lot of "Yes,
dears."
The others laugh.
ANGLE FOLLOWS TERRI as she dodges a PACK OF KIDS -- they run
by her, shrieking happily - before she finally reaches a
picnic table, where ASTRONAUTS' WIVES are opening containers
of baked beans, coleslaw, and potato salad.
1ST WIFE
...just not sure how I feel about
NASA allowing couples to go on this
type of mission together.
One of the other women raises a warning eyebrow, and the 1st
Wife turns, sees Terri setting down her platter.
1ST WIFE
(embarrassed)
Nothing personal, Terri. It's just
that, well, it's kind of a funny
feeling for those of us staying
behind.
TERRI
(carefully neutral)
All the research shows that marriage
will provide stability on these long
duration trips.
2ND WIFE
Then they haven't studied some of
the couples I've known.
Laughter at this. Terri smiles politely -- she doesn't really
have much in common with these women -- before moving on.
ANGLE LINGERS on the wives, who watch her go with a slight
tinge of jealousy. One of them is looking around.
3RD WIFE
Anybody seen Jim McConnell?
4TH WIFE
I don't think he's coming.
1ST WIFE
God, that poor man. How's he doing?
2ND WIFE
Totally losing it, from what I hear.
Can't sleep, can't eat. Visits her
grave almost every day.
(lowers her voice)
They say he could lose mission status.
3RD WIFE
Oh, that's so sad. That is just so
tragic. You go to a routine physical
one day, and wham.
4TH WIFE
After all those years of training,
too. It was their whole dream.
1ST WIFE
Must be a pretty funny feeling for
Luke Graham. Y'know? Now he's gonna
be in the history books. First man
on Mars...
She shakes her head, awed by the thought. The others nod in
agreement, following her glance...
In the distance, a lone MALE FIGURE stands by the garage,
his back to them, facing the parked cars, vans, and SUVs
which stretch down the driveway and along the street. Another
figure, a WOMAN, can be seen approaching him.
CLOSER ANGLE FOLLOWS the moving woman -- DEBRA GRAHAM, early
30s, very attractive -- until she reaches her husband. LUKE
GRAHAM, mid 30s, has the lean, fit body of an astronaut, the
restless intellect of a scientist. He's unaware of her
approach until she touches his shoulder. He looks at her
with an apologetic smile.
DEBRA
He's not coming, Luke.
LUKE
Jim deserves this, too. All his
friends are here. And it's my last
night.
DEBRA
(gently)
Your last night with us, too.
He looks at her, moved. She summons a smile. He slides his
arms around her waist, kisses her forehead.
LUKE
I love you, Deb.
DEBRA
I love you too, baby. But maybe you
should spend some time with Bobby.
LUKE
Yeah. I will. Where is he?
DEBRA
Up in his fort.
He kisses her again, then goes. Debra's eyes follow him,
with a mixture of pride and sadness.
ANGLE FOLLOWS Luke away from the garage, into
Luke moves through the crowd. Phil and the kids are still
shooting off rockets. Red streaks arc high overhead.
In the back corner of the yard, where it's quieter, he passes
Willis, who's sitting on a blanket, murmuring soulfully to
PRETTY GIRL #2.
WILLIS
Deep space is so lonesome. So cold.
But I guess I'll have my memories to
keep me warm...
Luke shakes his head. Willis is incorrigible. Finally he
reaches a tall redwood playset. He looks up the ladder.
A SMALL BOY sits on the platform of the tower, arms around
his knees, staring up at the stars. A telescope rests nearby
on a tripod. He looks lonely.
Luke climbs up, sits down on the wooden deck next to him.
BOBBY, 7, glances over at his dad, his idol, then back at
the sky.
BOBBY
Who's gonna read to me now, at
bedtime?
Luke is surprised by the question. A pause.
LUKE
Mommy will.
BOBBY
I like when you do it. Now we're
never gonna finish our book.
His voice is unexpectedly fierce. He's fighting back tears.
Luke is moved. Another brief silence.
LUKE
Well, I'll tell you what. I've been
thinking about that. And what I
thought was -- how 'bout if I bring
along my own copy?
(Bobby looks at him)
Then every night, wherever I am,
I'll read a little bit more of it.
And I'll know that you and Mommy,
wherever you are, you're reading it
too. That way, it'll feel like we're
still reading it together. 'Cause I
don't know about you, but I'm pretty
anxious to find out how 'ol Ben Gunn
got marooned on that island. What
d'you say?
Bobby manages a smile. He nods, feeling a little better.
Luke is proud of his son's courage.
LUKE
Good deal. Can I have a hug?
Bobby's arms go around his father's neck. He hugs Luke
fiercely, and Luke hugs him back. His eyes, over the thin
young shoulders, are brimming with love and impending absence.
Then, from the distance, the sound of an APPROACHING CAR.
They both turn.
An open Jeep is coming down the street. Its DRIVER is alone.
Luke's expression changes. Recognition, then happiness.
The Jeep stops, its electric engine WHIRRING down. The Driver
climbs out wearily, reaching into the back seat, and comes
out with a champagne bottle, hastily decorated with ribbon.
The PARTY SOUNDS are drifting this way, and he hesitates a
moment, seeming to gather himself. He starts gamely towards
the party, then pauses again.
Debra Graham stands nearby on the front lawn, waiting. She
smiles tentatively.
JIM MCCONNELL, early 40s, manages a smile in return. He has
dark circles under his eyes, and his clothes look slept in.
Yet we sense, even through his sadness, a kind of quiet
competence in this man, an unforced authority; he's a natural
leader.
Debra hurries forward, into his arms, and he hugs her. They
separate, looking at each other. Her eyes are shining.
DEBRA
We were afraid you wouldn't come.
MCCONNELL
I caught a whiff of your barbecue.
After that I was helpless.
DEBRA
All the way out in Galveston?
MCCONNELL
Something like that.
(she smiles)
It's his night, Deb. I didn't want
to spoil it.
DEBRA
Spoil it? He's been going crazy
looking for you.
Over her shoulder he sees Luke approaching, his arm around
Bobby. The two men look at each other, the bond between them
so strong it needs no words. Finally Luke smiles.
LUKE
C'mon. A whole lot of folks here are
gonna be mighty glad to see you.
McConnell comes towards him, accompanied by Debra, and
together the four of them move OUT OF FRAME, heading towards
the party. ANGLE HOLDS on the parking area, as we...
DISSOLVE TO:
All the parked cars and vans are gone now, except for two:
McConnell's Jeep and Woody's classic 'Vette. Willis, one of
the last to go, is just departing on his motorcycle. Perched
behind him, arms around his waist, is PRETTY GIRL #3. They
zoom away, through the darkened neighborhood.
The yard is nearly deserted. The "Bon Voyage" banner has
torn loose at one end and flutters limply. Here and there a
napkin blows across the ground.
In the distance, THREE FIGURES sit on the ground, by the
waning fire of the barbecue pit, sipping beers.
CLOSER ON THIS TRIO
As Woody shoves another piece of wood into the flames. For a
moment he, McConnell, and Luke are silent, staring at the
sparks as they rise towards the stars -- red and gold dots
mingling with the silver ones.
WOODY
(abruptly)
I wish we were all going. Together.
The intensity in his voice surprises the others, and even
Woody himself. Luke glances at McConnell. An awkward beat.
LUKE
Then you've got a short memory. Think
back to how we were by the second
week of lunar training.
WOODY
Oh, you're not gonna bring that up
again --
LUKE
(laughing)
I'm trying to remember, let's see,
which one of us scored the lowest
ranking up there?
WOODY
You just can't let that go --
LUKE
Oh, man, three commanders, on the
same ship? If they sent us off to
Mars together, there wouldn't be
enough fuel to lift all those egos.
WOODY
(laughs)
Bullshit, we would've made a great
crew.
MCCONNELL
That was never gonna happen. I was
always teamed with Maggie, and we
were mostly chalkboard jockies. You
know? Systems. Payloads...
LUKE
Listen to him. Mr. Cover-of-Time
Magazine!
WOODY
Yeah, who landed the crippled Block
II Shuttle?
LUKE
Yeah, and who scored highest on the
lunar rankings?
WOODY
Let it go, Luke.
MCCONNELL
(smiles)
Sure, I made a little noise. But
putting the first footprints on Mars?
Nah. That's for guys who...
(looks at Luke)
...wrote their Ph.D. thesis on how
to colonize the place. And guys who...
(looks at Woody)
...read too much science fiction as
a kid and still wear little Flash
Gordon rocketships around their necks.
He grabs playfully at Woody's neck. Woody smacks his hand
away, laughing.
WOODY
You read the same damn science fiction
books that I did! You're just not
man enough to wear jewelry!
He pulls from his shirt a little Flash Gordon rocketship
emblem hanging on a chain, and waggles this tauntingly at
McConnell, as Luke and McConnell laugh.
WOODY
You want Flash. You know you want
him. Well you'll have to come through
me!
Luke grabs Woody's arm to give McConnell a better shot at
the emblem, but Woody cuffs his hands away, laughing.
McConnell, watching their horseplay, shakes his head.
MCCONNELL
God, she would've loved to see you
two clowns. Just one more time.
He tries to smile, but his face reddens. Then all at once
his chest is heaving as he struggles to control his emotions.
Woody sees this, reaches out a reassuring hand, but McConnell
shakes him off, rises abruptly. He turns his back on them,
walking away a few steps.
Woody and Luke exchange a worried glance.
McConnell and Luke watch as Woody starts up his Corvette.
McConnell has regained his composure.
LUKE
Hey, Woodrow, isn't it about time
you donated this thing to a museum?
Woody revs the engine, which ROARS lustily. He grins.
WOODY
Internal combustion, boys. Accept no
substitutes.
Luke laughs. Woody looks at McConnell.
WOODY
Jim, if there's ever... if there's
anything Terri and I can do --
MCCONNELL
I'm okay. Really. Thanks.
Woody reaches out to shake Luke's hand.
WOODY
See you when I get to Mars, Luke.
Don't solve all the mysteries of the
universe, okay? Leave a little
something for the next guys.
LUKE
I'll see what I can do. Just make
sure you bring some fresh beer.
WOODY
You got it.
With a final glance at McConnell, Woody slips the car into
gear. McConnell and Luke watch as he drives away. A silence.
Luke glances at his old friend, growing more serious. We
sense he's been waiting all night for a chance to say this.
LUKE
Should've been your mission, Jim.
Yours and Maggie's.
McConnell, looking after Woody's car, becomes very still.
LUKE
None of us ever wanted Mars the way
you two did. Not even Woody. Twelve
years of hoping for this assignment,
training for it --
MCCONNELL
That's all over now.
LUKE
If Maggie hadn't gotten sick -- if
you hadn't pulled yourself out of
the rotation to take care of her --
McConnell turns to him, his eyes flashing danger. He will
not tolerate pity. Luke sees this but presses on.
LUKE
No, I'm gonna say this. I have to
say it...
(pause)
I wanted Mars One. Hell, I battled
you for it every step of the way.
Never wanted to beat anybody so bad
in my life. But not like this...
Jim, I'd give this all up in a second,
if it would bring Maggie back to us.
McConnell is deeply moved, and for a moment doesn't trust
his own voice.
MCCONNELL
I know that, Luke. You don't have to
say it... Mars is yours now. Go get
it.
LUKE
(pause)
Take care of yourself.
MCCONNELL
Yeah. You too.
Luke nods. They grab hands for a second, then let go. Luke
walks back towards his house. McConnell watches him for a
moment, then turns, walks over to his Jeep. He opens his
door, then pauses. He turns. Looks up at --
A tiny reddish dot hovers there, glowing steadily. Mars
itself, a tantalizing prize. But for him now, more distant
than ever. For him, perhaps, never to be attained.
CLOSE ON MCCONNELL'S FACE
As we see these thoughts going through him. After a moment
he looks down at
HIS SHOES
And the sandy verge of the front yard.
MCCONNELL'S EYES
Are a map of complex emotions: regret, injured pride, infinite
yearning. Gently, a bit self-consciously, HE LIFTS ONE SHOE
And sets it down again, making a careful, deliberate footprint
in the sandy soil...
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
Instantly we're hurled into an immense, stunning LANDSCAPE,
mysterious and vivid as a fever dream. Dazzling sunlight. A
vast plain of rust-orange soil. Countless craters. Boulders
the size of houses, tossed about by the hands of gods. Twin
moons hanging in a salmon-pink sky. On the horizon, towering,
craggy peaks. And, at center -- the only sign of life -- a
small, mysterious, moving puff of dust.
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
CLOSER ANGLE as a small, Sojourner-like, multi-wheeled robotic
vehicle ambles INTO FRAME, jouncing along the orange Martian
soil, pausing to snuffle its sensors towards the occasionally
interesting rock. Lettering on its side reads "ARES-8."
SUPER TITLE: "MARS. PLAINS OF CYDONIA. EIGHT MONTHS LATER."
Suddenly Ares-8 pauses. Its video lens WHIRRS out, fine-tuning
focus, as it becomes intrigued by something OFFSCREEN -- a
higher, more distant target. The little fellow almost quivers
with excitement.
A one-man ATV ROVER waits in the background, in a dry
streambed, as Luke, in an EVA spacesuit, swings a clawed
rock hammer against a multi-layered, sedimentary rock face.
Reddish dust coats his bulky white suit. Despite that bulk,
he moves easily in the light Martian gravity (1/3 Earth's).
A hunk of rock breaks off, and Luke examines it more closely,
holding it up to his clear faceplate. He's very happy,
absorbed in this work, when his RADIO CRACKLES.
COTE
Luke, you read me?
LUKE
Yeah, Renee.
COTE
Luke, I just got ARES-8 on line and...
Well, we think you're gonna wanna
see this for yourself.
Luke, though reluctant to break off work, is intrigued.
LUKE
Copy that.
As Luke turns away, headed for the rover
WE PULL WIDE
To REVEAL a STAGGERING PROSPECT, seen for the first time:
Valles Marineris, that planet-creasing slash. So wide, so
deep, it boggles the mind: on earth it would reach from New
York to L.A.
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
AIRLOCK DOORS
Slide back, REVEALING the crew in EVA suits, carrying gear.
They walk over to...
THE FOUR-MAN ROVER
The astronauts climb in through the hatch. The last one in
pulls it shut behind him and locks the latches. We see Cote
and Luke check their screens and press some buttons. Luke
puts the rover in drive.
WIDER ANGLE, PULLING UP AND AWAY
As the rover moves off across the rocky surface, dust kicking
up from the wheels, we get our first exterior glimpse of the
Mars One Base Camp. The main HAB UNIT looks like a huge tuna
can with a conical top section; it connects to a separate,
inflated-bubble GREENHOUSE. There's also an OXYGEN STILL,
PROPELLANT PLANT, and, on the other side, a couple hundred
meters distant, the massive ERV (Earth Return Vehicle), which
arrived as a separate, unmanned flight.
Rows of SOLAR PANELS, arrayed on the ground, and an AMERICAN
FLAG on a thin pole, about man-height, complete the scene.
DISSOLVE TO:
A vast, impressive, MULTI-SECTIONED SPACECRAFT is drifting
majestically above Earth. The main hull displays both NASA
and U.N. flag decals.
SUPER TITLE: "INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION. MARS MISSION
CONTROL ROOM (MMCR). 20 MINUTE TIME LAG."
We MOVE IN towards another of the station's segments, which
is dedicated entirely (as we see from more labels and
insignias) to the Mars Program: Control Room, Training and
Living Quarters, and a Vehicle Docking and Launch Area, where
Mars Two is already positioned for its eventual flight. We
hear LUKE'S EXCITED VOICE, over speakers.
LUKE
This is a truly anomalous formation.
Looks like nothing we've seen so
far. The structure appears to be
crystalline, at least from the angle
displayed by ARES-8 ...
The rover is a hundred meters away and moving fast TOWARDS
CAMERA. We BOOM DOWN to REVEAL Ares-8, still faithfully
holding its point, like an Irish Setter, with its video snout
WHIRRING OUT.
The rover drives up and slows to a stop nearby. The hatch
door cracks open and some dust vents out. The door opens all
the way and the astronauts climb out. They all look up in
awe. We hear their voices ON RADIOS.
KIROV
Jesus Christ...
THE MYSTERIOUS PEAK
Gleams in the sun, dazzling white, its facets as planed and
smooth as if an architect had drawn them. It pierces through
the topmost rubble at the near end of the big mountain -- an
isolated, butte-like giant, stretching two miles from left
to right in front of them.
THE ASTRONAUTS
Walk towards the mountain. There's a very deep, very low,
staccato tone intruding over their headsets.
LUKE
Anyone else hear that?
COTE
Yeah. What is it?
WILLIS
Sounds like our antenna's out of
phase.
LUKE
Can you fix it?
WILLIS
Hey, skip, I can fix anything.
LUKE
Big talker. Renee, Sergei, let's
break out the radar, see what this
thing's made of.
As they go to their jobs, the deep, barely audible rumbling
tone continues.
Cote stands by a display screen mounted on the rover. Kirov
has a big radar gun on a tripod, pointing at the mountain.
Luke turns to Cote.
LUKE
Well? What's under there?
COTE
(puzzled)
Je ne sais pas. I... I think there's
something wrong with the equipment.
LUKE
What?
COTE
I mean, it can't be right. It says...
it says there's metal under there.
Luke doesn't understand. He walks up to look at the display
screen.
COTE
(points)
There's ten, twelve meters of rubble
and sand, and then... solid metal.
LUKE
That doesn't make any sense. You're
reading a vein of ore.
COTE
(shakes her head)
No. It's under the whole mountain.
The deep pulsing tone continues. Luke frowns.
LUKE
Nick, could the problem with the
antenna be interfering?
WILLIS
Could be.
LUKE
(to Cote and Kirov)
Try it closer and up the power. I'll
watch the screen.
Cote and Kirov are close to the foot of the mountain,
resetting the radar gun on its tripod. The deep vibrating
tone continues.
Luke is some distance away, by the rover. He looks at Willis,
who's still working on the rover's antenna.
LUKE
Nick, how we coming on that antenna?
WILLIS
Goin' as fast as I can, boss.
Cote and Kirov are having some trouble with the switches on
the radar gun. They turn towards Luke and Willis.
KIROV
Hey, Nick. Come show me how stupid I
am. I can't get this to work.
Willis looks at Luke. Luke nods -- Go help them. Willis starts
towards the radar gun.
Willis, Cote, and Kirov get the radar gun up and running.
KIROV
All set here, chief.
Luke sidles over to the display screen on the rover.
LUKE
Okay. Crank up the juice and let's
see what's in this sucker.
Luke watches the screen on the rover, as, by the mound...
KIROV
Flips a switch on the radar gun, then swivels its muzzle
slowly across the near slope of the mountain. We hear and
feel the radar signal. The immediate result is that the
pulsing tone we've been hearing suddenly stops.
LUKE
Looks up from the display screen. A puzzled expression.
LUKE
Why did that stop?
A split-second later, he gets his answer. We hear a WHOOSH,
a mighty rushing of wind, as
A GIGANTIC, TRANSLUCENT CYLINDER
Starts to swirl and rise, straight up from the top or the
mountain, at its center. As it swirls, the cylinder picks up
debris -- pebbles, sand -- from the sediment-encrusted surface
of the slopes.
THE FOUR ASTRONAUTS
Stare up at this spectacle, awed. A cyclone? Some kind of
energy wave? They have no idea. At the moment they're too
fascinated to even be scared.
TILTING UP - FROM THEIR POV
We see the whirling cylinder rise, higher and higher,
perfectly straight, until in just moments it's as tall as a
skyscraper. As it rises, it gains speed and power, narrowing
at its top into a conical vortex. It's sucking up so much
dirt, so many rocks -- even small boulders now -- that the
accumulating debris begins to darken its swirling, translucent
outer "skin".
THE ASTRONAUTS
Exchange amazed glances. Can't believe their eyes...
Luke, still staring in fascination, becomes aware of sand
and pebbles flashing past his helmet. From behind. He turns.
SAND PATTERS AGAINST HIS FACEPLATE
As the nearby landscape BLURS. The vacuuming effect is
becoming more general across the area. More violent.
LUKE IS ALARMED
And the spell is broken. He keys his throat mike, his lips
moving, but no sound can be heard over the ROARING WIND. He
waves his arms, motioning for the others to back away, towards
the rover. Wind whips at their EVA suits as they obey him,
retreating.
Luke, backing away himself, is afraid to take his eyes off
the cylinder.
Then he sees that one man -- Willis -- hasn't moved. In fact
he's busily snapping photographs of the cylinder. Luke hurries
over to him, tugs his sleeve.
WILLIS LOWERS HIS CAMERA
But still stares up, transfixed, like a man face to face
with a cobra. Luke follows the young astronaut's frightened
gaze, and his own eyes widen as he sees
THE TOP OF THE VORTEX
Beginning to tilt down, then coil sideways. Suddenly they're
looking into the huge open "mouth" of it, as sand and rocks
fly into the swirling darkness...
The monstrous, gaping maw slithers down over the rim of the
mountain, turning this way, then that. Seeking them. And
then, with horrifying precision, it locks in on the little
group of astronauts. And lunges towards them...
Luke and Willis turn, running as hard as they can towards
the rover. But the suction is so great, it's as if they're
held back by wires.
The ground itself is SHAKING, RUMBLING, as earthquakes begin
to open fissures across the plain. The ROAR of the vortex,
the GROANING of the earth, are like an onrushing freight
train...
AHEAD OF THEM
In the maelstrom of flying debris, they can barely make out
Cote and Kirov, still retreating, leaning back with all their
strength against the suction, while staring up, aghast.
Suddenly a hurtling rock, the size of a basketball, smashes
into Cote's helmet from behind, crushing it and killing her
instantly. Blood sprays into the wind, immediately
crystallizing, in the sub-zero atmosphere, into red pellets...
LUKE, HORRIFIED, FLINGS HIS ARM UP
As bloody hail patters against his faceplate and forearm. An
instant later he sees
KIROV
Snatched up by the wind, then swept past him, in a terrifying
blur, arms and legs flailing, mouth open in a silent scream
as he vanishes...
THE GROUND AT LUKE'S FEET
Abruptly opens, and he slides into a fissure. Scrabbling
frantically with his gloved hands, he manages to momentarily
arrest his fall, gripping the edge of the fault line, with
his helmet and one elbow thrust over its lip. The air is
almost solidly choked with debris, deadly boulders bound
over him, and torrents of cascading sand are burying him
alive...
CLOSE ON LUKE
Barely conscious, as he watches, for a horrifying final
instant, as...
HIS LAST CREWMAN, WILLIS
Is sucked bodily into the black maw of the vortex, spinning
and tumbling like a rag doll...
CLOSE ON WILLIS'S FACE
His features grotesquely distorted by the forces tearing at
him, before suddenly his faceplate is sprayed with blood,
and...
DISTANT ANGLE - LUKE'S POV
Willis's spacesuit explodes, his entire body disintegrating
into a million bits, which instantly disappear into the
hellish maelstrom. And then that maelstrom itself, just as
abruptly...
STOPS. Vanishes.
There is an instant, ringing SILENCE, as awesome in its own
way as the roaring storm itself had been...
WIDE ANGLE
On the plain, as the last pebbles, released from suction,
pitter down, bouncing. Swirls of dust and sand drift away,
settling gently. The harsh orange landscape is once again
calm, peaceful.
And then, from the direction of the nearby mountain, we hear
another sound: the deep bass pulsing rumble returns.
MOVING ANGLE, the CAMERA EXPLORING ground zero, as the bass,
pulsing rumble continues...
WE PASS the Rover, canted sideways into a little crater,
with its canopy missing, one axle fractured, but miraculously
still with all four wheels...
WE PASS faithful little ARES-8, lying on its side, partially
crushed under a boulder. It gives a final, pitiful WHINE,
its video snout slowly extending, then dies. And finally we
come to the area where the fissure had been, and see
THE FISSURE HAS BEEN FILLED IN
Leaving only a slender crease of umber sand. No sign of Luke.
The pulsing rumble continues, over, as we see
An extraordinary sight, seen from high in the air, looking
back down. Staring up at us from the bottom of a shallow
crater, scoured clean of its aeons of accumulated silt and
rubble, is a structure resembling a vast humanoid Face.
The surface is gleaming white, apparently metallic. The
features are suggested by intricately interlocking planes,
slopes, ramps. The "eyes" -- hatches of some kind? -- are
closed, and the overall expression is eerily calm, but
terrible in its power, like some ancient tribal mask.
We see the Face clearly for only a few beats before thick,
scudding clouds OBSCURE it, but the deep, pulsing rumble
continues, low and insistent...
DISSOLVE TO:
An infinite canopy of stars. After a moment, some of them
begin to be BLOTTED OUT as
A SPACESHIP
Glides INTO VIEW. "MARS RECOVERY" (formerly Mars Two) looks
much like its sister craft on Mars: a conical cockpit mounted
above a "tuna can" crew Hab module.
SUPER TITLE: "MARS RECOVERY. MISSION DAY 172."
The entire lower deck forms a segmented section of the hull
that rotates on bearings to provide artificial gravity; we
see window ports spinning past, then an American flag emblem.
Behind this lower deck, in an extending network of struts,
like the abdomen of a dragonfly, are the three huge round
PROPELLANT TANKS. Then vast, delicate-looking rectangular
SOLAR PANELS, which sweep out to either side of the ship;
these also bear the dish of the earth-pointing HI-GAIN
ANTENNA. And finally comes the great mass of the ENGINE BELLS,
housed within a curving AEROSHELL; three hatches in the
aeroshell can open to allow the main thrusters to fire through
for a mid-course burn.
CAMERA DRIFTS CLOSER
To the forward section of the ship, APPROACHING a viewport
in the EVA airlock chamber. Inside, we can see Phil leaning
forward, concentrating on some task...
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
CLOSE ON A DIGITAL CLOCK
Just turning over to read "0545."
TERRI
Pulls her gaze away from these numbers. Judging from her
redrimmed eyes, it's been a long, anxious night. Restlessly,
looking to distract herself, she reaches for a test tube of
blood, straps it into a centrifuge, sets it spinning. Nearby
is her electron microscope.
MCCONNELL (LOWER HAB)
Lies on his cot in his own cubicle, with the door closed.
The lower hab has artificial gravity (AG) and McConnell can
move normally. Hands behind his head, he stares at his bureau.
PHOTO OF A WOMAN
Rests there, in its leather travel frame. Beautiful, smiling,
dark-haired: MAGGIE MCCONNELL. Her face glows with
intelligence and energy.
MCCONNELL
Shifts his eyes. The clock on his bulkhead reads "0546."
PHIL (LOWER HAB)
Stands in the communal bathroom, still in his pajamas, a
towel around his shoulders, brushing his teeth. He glances
at another digital clock, which reads "0547." Shakes his
head impatiently. He looks back into the mirror, then is
surprised to hear MUSIC lilting incongruously over the
loudspeakers: Elvis Presley's "Blue Moon."
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
Mars Recovery is speeding ever closer to Mars, which now
looms large, a dusty red mysterious sphere.
The outer airlock door is now open, revealing stars, as Woody
drifts through it into space. He's now wearing the MMU, an
oversized jet pack like the ones used by the shuttle
astronauts.
Woody, in the MMU, is hovering over the lower segment of the
Hab hull, and right away we see his problem. He can't reach
the damaged spot because it's spinning past him, spewing
vapor.
WOODY
(over radio)
Jim, how we doin' on the AG?
Attitude control thrusters on the hull begin firing in pulses.
The rotation of the lower Hab deck immediately starts to
slow down. The great red ball of Mars drifts by.
The lower Hab deck is no longer revolving. Woody pops his
thrusters and drifts over the metallic skin. But there's
such a vast area to search!
WOODY
Jesus, uh, OK, this is gonna be like
searching for a needle in a haystack.
Woody still drifts over the hull, searching intently as his
frustration builds.
WOODY
C'mon, c'mon, where are you...?
COMPUTER (V.O.)
Fifty per cent atmosphere...
Woody spots a tiny geyser of brownish ice crystals spouting
out of the hull of the lower Hab. It's some distance away
from him, but clearly visible.
WOODY
(to himself, marveling)
Sonofabitch. You never did that in
the simulator.
Woody, popping his thrusters, moves as fast as he can towards
the protruding finger of crystal, but he's not there yet.
All of a sudden Woody's thrusters cut out. The ship is moving
by, a meter beneath him. Woody punches his arm controls.
Nothing.
Then just as the outer edge of the hab starts to pass him,
the thrusters kick back in. Woody grabs the edge, starts to
move to the hole. Woody lets out a breath.
WOODY
(to himself)
Whoa.
Woody arrives at the ice finger, knocks away the big crystal,
then pulls his patch equipment from a pouch.
Outside, Woody slaps a big square patch over the hole, rips
off the backing.
CLOSE ON THE PATCH
As it changes color and shrinks, drawing itself down into
the metal of the hull.
Woody floats above the repaired hole, scanning the nearby
surface of the hull.
WOODY
Jim, there's a lot of scarring...
I'd better check for other punctures
while I'm out here.
MCCONNELL (V.O.)
Negative, negative. Woody, get back
inside. We've gotta start the
checklist for orbital insertion.
WOODY
(a beat; reluctantly)
Copy, I'm heading there now.
Woody jets back towards the open EVA hatch. But as he reaches
this, about to re-enter the ship, he's captured momentarily
by a breathtakingly beautiful sight below him.
SUNRISE OVER MARS
As the huge planet is REVEALED in all its red, unearthly
glory. It's so close now that individual features can be
seen with the naked eye -- the vast chasm of Valles Marineris,
and then Olympus Mons, poking all the way up through the
Martian atmosphere. A stunning, alluring spectacle.
WOODY
Stares down at Mars, enthralled, as sunlight floods the side
of the spaceship, sparkles off his visor. Dawn, after a very
long night indeed. He whispers lovingly, under his breath.
WOODY
Hey, Beautiful...
Then he stirs himself out of his reverie and hurries through
the EVA hatch.
CAMERA DRIFTS QUICKLY BACK and down along the hull as stark
sunlight flares off the big propellant tanks, three in a
row, and the thick silver tubes that join them. There's a
good deal of scarring and denting from the meteor shower.
Then, as the ship begins to MOVE OUT OF FRAME...
WE MOVE IN CLOSER
On one of these tubes, a feeder line to the engine bells, we
see a scatter of tiny, undetected holes, about the size of
the eraser at the end of a pencil. So small, so apparently
harmless...
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
MARS RECOVERY
Sails INTO VIEW, with small attitude thrusters firing as the
great ship maneuvers into position for its orbital-capture
burn. Mars looks very large, blood-red. The entire spectacle
is majestic, awe-inspiring.
WOODY
OK, we're ready to light this candle.
Go/No Go for braking burn and MOI.
Engines?
As we MOVE IN on the damaged fuel line, we see a tiny but
steady spray of fuel venting from the hole caused by the
meterorite. This freezes into eerie streamers and chunks,
which slowly drift away from the ship. They're quite
beautiful.
PHIL (V.O.)
Optimum angle of entry minus seven
degrees. Six... Five...
In total silence, the engines ignite. The second they do,
the streamers of frozen fuel explode in a white flash.
Too late! IN SLOW MOTION, we see a terrifyingly violent chain
reaction. The fuel tanks themselves explode, one after
another. The supporting metal struts are vaporized. The solar
panels are snapped off. Two of the huge engine bells are
smashed sideways, out of alignment, while the third, trailing
pieces of the cowling, goes hurtling off, PAST CAMERA, like
a flaming cannon ball. The entire aft section of the ship,
including much of the lower Hab, instantly becomes a shredded,
charred tangle of metal, and even worse, the explosion causes
what's left of the ship -- mainly the EVA chamber and cockpit --
to tumble end over end, cartwheeling down towards Mars.
From further away, the charred remainder of the ship can be
seen spinning down towards Mars, which now fills the screen,
looming as large as Earth, when seen from the space shuttle.
The ship's motion is mercifully slowing as it hits the outer
atmosphere, but just as clearly this steep, unplanned angle
of entry dooms it.
PHIL
Christ, at this angle we'll burn up!
The astronauts are outside the ship, tethered to each other
with long shock cords. Other cords, clipped to their suits,
trail gear bags. Phil clutches a silver metallic case -- his
precious computer repair kit. Woody is in the MMU. They're
all rotating at the same speed as the ship behind them.
WOODY
On my mark, seven percent left
thruster. Three, two, one, fire.
All four astronauts fire a brief, simultaneous burst from
the tiny attitude control thrusters in their suits. This
stops their rotation, bringing their travel under control.
The ship continues spinning in the background.
Woody takes a final look at the charred, doomed Mars Recovery.
The only home they've known for six months. He exchanges a
silent glance with the others. They all expect to be dead in
the next few minutes. Woody takes a breath, nods.
WOODY
Okay. Let's go.
He pops the big thrusters on the MMU and starts heading away
from the ship. The cord between Woody and the others pulls
taut and they start to follow.
WIDE SHOT
Of Woody leading them away from the crippled spaceship,
against the magnificent backdrop of the blood-red planet
below. Four tiny figures, all alone in space.
ANGLE ON MCCONNELL AND THE OTHERS
As Phil looks back, his eyes searching the stars.
TERRI
What're you looking for?
PHIL
(softly, sadly)
Earth.
TERRI
(beat)
Hey. When we get back? We really
will have to try this in the sim.
He tries to smile. So does she.
MCCONNELL
How we doin' on fuel, Woody?
Woody eyes a small display screen on his forearm.
WOODY
I'm at fifty percent.
(looking down)
But I don't see the REMO.
THEIR POV
Everyone is looking back at the curve of Mars against black
space, expecting to see the REMO coming up behind them.
TERRI
Happens to glance directly below.
TERRI
There she is!
THEIR POV
The black outline of the little cargo craft drifts against
the red of Mars.
WOODY
Jesus. She's not where I thought
she'd be.
PHIL
We're going to miss her.
WOODY
Looks again at his display screen, frustrated.
MCCONNELL
What do you think?
WOODY
We can't catch it. Not like this.
MCCONNELL
(thinking quickly)
Use the tether.
From a compartment on the side of the MMU, Woody pulls out...
THE TETHER GUN
About the size of a large flare gun. There's a carabiner-
like hook five inches in diameter on the front of the gun.
MCCONNELL
We'll only have one, maybe two shots
before she's out of reach.
WOODY
It'll be better if I leave you the
gun while I run out to the REMO.
I've got enough fuel left for that.
MCCONNELL
You'll be going too fast.
WOODY
I'll aim to overshoot, then brake
like hell; arc it in.
McConnell looks at him. They both know how risky this is,
and they also know it's their only chance. Woody flips a
switch on the gun and pulls on the hook. Off it comes,
trailing wire. Woody clips the hook to the MMU, then hands
McConnell the gun.
WOODY
Seeya in a few.
McConnell nods. Woody and Terri exchange a look -- tender,
loving -- then Woody turns around and fires the MMU jets at
full throttle. As Woody pulls away, line unspools from the
tether gun.
WOODY AND THE REMO
Woody is chasing the REMO from above. It's as if he were in
an airplane, trying to land on a car racing along a freeway.
Woody is picking up speed quickly. Maybe too quickly. He
checks his armpad display screen.
WOODY
Okay. I'm on path to overshoot. I'm
gonna take the edge off.
Woody starts braking with the MMU thrusters as hard as he
can.
CLOSE ON THE THRUSTERS
Glowing with orange flame. They suddenly cut off.
WOODY'S EYES
Show alarm. He checks his display.
WOODY
I'm out. Coming in hot. Still long.
(beat)
Abandoning the unit. I'll brake with
suit jets.
Woody hits some buttons and the MMU's latches snap open. He
grabs the hook connected to the tether line, then pushes
himself free of the MMU, starts firing his small suit jets.
WOODY'S POV
He's still going very quickly.
WITH MCCONNELL, TERRI AND PHIL
Floating close together. The tether line is still unspooling
from the gun. They watch Woody, below and ahead of them, as
he races towards the REMO. Terri's heart is in her throat.
TERRI
Oh Jesus. Jesus...
McConnell reaches a glove out, touching her arm.
BACK ON WOODY
Still speeding towards the REMO. His suit jets cut out.
WOODY
Suit jets gone. But I'm gonna make
contact...
MCCONNELL, TERRI AND PHIL
Stare at Woody's distant figure.
INTERCUT --
MCCONNELL
At what velocity?
WOODY
Impact's gonna be a little rough.
MCCONNELL
At what velocity?
WOODY
(beat)
Thirty-two.
A look between McConnell and Terri; her face is stricken.
MCCONNELL
I'm gonna use the gun to slow you.
WOODY
No! You slow me and I'll fall short.
MCCONNELL
It's too fast, Woody.
WOODY
No choice. I'll be okay. Here we
go...
WOODY AND THE REMO
Woody's coming down on the module at over thirty kilometers
an hour. He holds the hook out in front of him with one hand
while grabbing the tether line with the other, and WHAM! --
he crashes into the REMO.
WOODY'S HAND
Slams the hook against a receiver on the hull of the REMO.
IT CONNECTS --
WOODY
Tries to hold onto the tether line but his momentum is too
much.
HIS GLOVED HANDS
Are ripped from the line.
WOODY
Slides over the hull of the REMO.
HIS HANDS
Grasp in vain for something to grab onto. They drag and bump
and then finally his fingers close on... empty space.
WOODY
Is past the REMO, freefalling toward Mars.
BACK ON MCCONNELL, TERRI AND PHIL
As Terri screams.
TERRI
Woody!!
McConnell hits a button on the tether gun and starts to reel
them quickly in towards the REMO.
WOODY
Tries his suit jets again -- they're empty.
HIS POV
Falling away from the REMO.
MCCONNELL AND THE OTHERS
Are being reeled towards the REMO by the tether line. Another
couple hundred meters to go.
MCCONNELL
Woody, what's your status?
INTERCUTTING --
WOODY
(after a beat)
Uh, well, no suit jets and I'm still
carrying a good deal of velocity.
MCCONNELL
As soon as we get hooked up, I'll
come get you.
WOODY
(after a beat)
Uh, I'd have to say negative on that,
Jim.
MCCONNELL
Negative on the transmission?
WOODY
No, I heard you. Negative on the
maneuver. I am not retrievable.
McConnell and Terri share a quick, anguished look.
TERRI
Woody, that's not possible. You're
not going that fast.
WOODY
It comes down to the amount of fuel,
honey. The suit jets were designed
for attitude control, not travel.
Retrieval just won't work.
PHIL
It has to work!
WOODY
Hey, believe me, I don't like it any
more than you do.
TERRI
Woody --
WOODY
Run the numbers, Jim.
MCCONNELL
I am.
McConnell finishes looking over the numbers on his display
pad. Terri is staring at him. When McConnell's eyes meet
hers, they are red-rimmed. Haunted.
MCCONNELL
Woody, you hang tight. We'll get
into the REMO, fire her up, drop her
into a lower orbit and come scoop
you up.
WOODY
Sounds good, Jim.
TERRI
It's gonna take half an hour to get
the REMO reoriented! Woody'll be...
He'll be in the atmosphere by then!
MCCONNELL
Then we'll have to get her moving
faster.
TERRI
We don't have time!
WOODY
You listen to Jim, honey. It's a
good plan.
TERRI
No! We are going to --
PHIL
Oh Jesus, look! The ship!
Phil points. McConnell and Terri look.
THE MARS RECOVERY COCKPIT
Is now several kilometers below and behind them. It's glowing
red... then orange... then white. Then it erupts into a giant
fireball, devoured by friction with Mars' atmosphere.
MCCONNELL, TERRI AND PHIL IN DEEP SPACE
Are all staring at this, awed, when McConnell happens to
look up again. He sees something alarming.
MCCONNELL
Look out!
THEIR POV
They are drifting quickly into the REMO.
MCCONNELL
Brakes!
ALL THREE
Fire their suit jets, slowing themselves down. They bang
into the REMO at about one-tenth the speed Woody did. They
find handholds and grab on. McConnell hits a button on the
tether gun.
THE HOOK
Releases from the REMO's hull. McConnell hits another button
and it is reeled all the way into the gun. Phil is already
scrabbling at a latch on the REMO's outer airlock door.
MCCONNELL
Okay, let's get inside! Phil, start
dumping the cargo, or there won't be
room for us.
PHIL
But we need those supplies for --
MCCONNELL
Dump the cargo. Hang on, Woody!
WOODY
Is looking back at the REMO. Smiles with relief to see that
Terri has reached it safely.
WOODY
Will do, Jim.
He turns to look at...
MARS
Right below him, filling his field of view. A long beat.
WOODY
(softly)
Hey, Beautiful...
BACK AT THE REMO
Terri makes a snap decision. She grabs the tether gun from
McConnell's surprised hands, then pushes off from the REMO.
McConnell lunges after her, his gloved hand straining.
MCCONNELL
Terri, no!
But it's too late. She's already out of reach, and now fires
her suit jets, pulling quickly away from the REMO.
MCCONNELL
Is reaching to activate his own jets, when
PHIL'S HAND
Grabs at his wrist, restraining this suicidal courage. They
stare at each other. McConnell wrenches his hand free, half-
maddened, agonized, staring after Terri.
MCCONNELL
Goddammit, Terri, it won't work!
But Terri keeps on going.
WOODY
Looks back at the REMO, as he continues to fall towards Mars.
Sees the small figure of his wife heading towards him.
WOODY
Terri, what are you doing?
INTERCUT --
TERRI
I'll tell you what I'm not doing,
Woody. I'm not going to watch you
die.
WOODY
Terri --
TERRI
You'd do the same for me.
AT THE REMO
Phil is watching as Terri drops towards the distant twinkle
of Woody's suit lights. The airlock door hangs open. Phil
looks at McConnell, anguished.
MCCONNELL
Get inside. Dump the cargo, then
start the systems.
(Phil hesitates)
Now.
INTERCUTTING BETWEEN WOODY AND TERRI
As Woody keys his mike. Tries to steady his voice.
WOODY
No. I wouldn't come for you. Not if
it just wasn't possible.
TERRI
I can do it!
WOODY
No, Terri, you can't! You don't have
enough fuel to get me, stop us both,
and get us back. Hell, you come any
farther and you won't have enough to
get back yourself.
No response from Terri.
WOODY
Listen to me, goddammit! You have to
stop! You have to stop now!
MCCONNELL
He's right, Terri... It's no use.
Terri looks at her armpad display.
CLOSE ON DISPLAY SCREEN
As her fuel indicator drops from 50 percent to 49 to...
TERRI
Releases her thumb from the toggle control.
HER SUIT JETS
Stop firing.
TERRI
Drifts, staring towards Woody.
TERRI AND WOODY
Are on the same trajectory, going the same speed, and only
about a hundred meters apart. But it might as well be
infinity.
WOODY
Okay, honey...? You gotta go back
now.
TERRI
The hell I do.
Terri raises up the tether gun and pulls the trigger.
THE HOOK
Comes shooting out of the gun, wire spooling out behind it.
WOODY
Watches as it comes shooting down toward him.
PLATE POV -- MOVING -- AS
Woody gets larger and larger, the hook gets closer and closer,
and then SNAP! -- the hook stops. ANGLE ON THE TETHER GUN
The wire has run all the way out.
WOODY
Looks at the drifting hook, ten agonizing meters away from
him. His only life preserver.
TERRI
Hits the button and the wire starts winching fast back into
the gun.
WOODY
What are you doing?
TERRI
I'm gonna jet a little closer and
try again.
WOODY
Terri, you spend any fuel getting
closer, you won't get back, and if
anyone tries to get you, they'll die
too.
No response from Terri.
THE HOOK
Is whipping back toward Terri and the gun. Woody's voice
cracks; he's very close to tears. Pleading now.
WOODY
Honey, please go back. Go back and
help everyone get down to the surface.
The hook slams back against the muzzle of the gun. Terri
resets the gun quickly, in an anguished fury.
TERRI
I am not losing you.
WOODY
I can't let you do it. I can't. I'm
sorry.
TERRI
Looks at Woody, two hundred meters away, sensing something
different in his voice now, a terrible resolve...
TERRI
Woody...?
WOODY
Raises his hands to his helmet ring. His eyes shining.
WOODY
I love you, Terri. God how I love
you.
He unscrews the ring, pops the seal. The outrush of air pushes
his helmet all the way off. Woody shuts his eyes and opens
his mouth.
TERRI
Woody, nooooooo...!!!
Ice crystals bloom with Woody's last breath. There's nothing
to suck in. He doesn't fight it. He lets death come.
ANGLE ON TERRI
Tears streaming, chest heaving, frantic.
TERRI
Woody, oh Woody, please God, no!
HER THUMB
Hovers over her suit jet toggle control. McConnell's voice,
from the distance, sounds very tired. Like he's aged fifty
years in the blink of an eye.
MCCONNELL
Come back, Terri.
Terri's thumb is still poised. Death would be better.
ANGLE ON MCCONNELL
Outside the REMO. The hatch is still open. We see Phil inside,
staring out anxiously towards Terri.
MCCONNELL
(quietly, simply)
He's gone.
He sees no movement from the distant, small figure of Terri.
MCCONNELL
Please, Terri...
(long beat)
We need you.
TERRI'S THUMB
Pushes the toggle control... to one side, not forward.
TERRI'S FACE
Inside her helmet, is streaming with tears. She turns herself
around, reluctantly. Heads slowly back towards the REMO.
The REMO is now on the night side of Mars. Cargo boxes,
packing cases and assorted equipment containers float outside.
The hatch is sealed.
Small thrusters are firing, getting the REMO into position
for entry into the atmosphere.
Then all the jets fire in unison, braking the REMO, as it
falls away from us, towards Mars at night.
The Mars One Base Camp looms in the foreground, like some
desolate, otherwordly ghost town. And then, in the night sky
beyond it, we see an eerie and beautiful sight: a bright
streak of red as the REMO slashes down into the Martian
atmosphere, like a shooting star, finally disappearing behind
distant mountains. Then all is stillness again, deathly
stillness and silence...
POV ANGLE - WIDE
As we see the Mars One Base Camp: silent, very still. In the
distance, the massive ERV still looms, perched for takeoff,
the bottom rungs of its ladder buried.
PANNING
We see that sand has drifted high against the Hab, as well
as the sides of the partially-deflated tunnel and greenhouse,
and the four-man rover. The oxygen still and propellant plant
are almost buried. Solar panels, some of them punctured by
micrometeors, FLAP and CREAK eerily in the slight breeze.
And finally,
CLOSER TO CAMERA
We see the camp's American flag, still on its toppled pole,
but nearly obliterated by sand.
ANGLE ON MCCONNELL, TERRI, AND PHIL
Who are spooked by this desolation. They've paused at the
edge of the camp.
They have dragged along with them from their landing site a
crude sledge, improvised from the REMO's hatch cover and
some cargo straps. On this, their meager supplies.
McConnell, glancing at the others, knows he's got to keep
their spirits up. He kneels, digs out the flag pole. Brushing
off the sand, he rights this and re-plants it firmly in the
ground, packing the sand down with his boot. He stands for a
moment looking at the flag, his eyes moist. Despite the cost,
they have made it to Mars.
When he turns, Terri and Phil are looking at him, moved.
MCCONNELL
Better?
PHIL
(pause)
Damn right.
MCCONNELL
Terri, let's see if that oxygen still
is operational. Phil, you better
check out the ERV. I'll take the
Hab. If you find Luke's --
He catches himself. Phil and Terri look at him.
MCCONNELL
Just keep in touch.
Phil steps from the umber sand onto the ERV's ladder, begins
to climb. The four-man rover is nearby, sand drifted high
against its tires.
Terri kneels by the oxygen still, begins to scoop away sand
with her gloved hands. She still looks numb.
MCCONNELL
(on radio)
I'm at the main airlock door.
He unlatches a panel, grips the emergency lever inside, tugs
it. After a seeming eternity, the door groans and creaks
open. Little puffs of dust and sand swirl about, settle.
MCCONNELL
Entering Hab.
Perched atop the ERV's ladder, Phil, using a battery-powered
drill, is just removing the final screw from the hatch cover.
He lifts off the heavy cover, lets it tumble to the sand.
PHIL
I've got ERV access. I'm going in.
Terri, you okay?
Terri is still scooping sand. She's just cleared the first
row of gauges.
TERRI
Yeah. This is gonna take awhile to
get back to 100% capacity.
Terri has cleared more gauges, valves. She sits back on her
heels, studying the tangle of pipes.
TERRI
Copy that. I've got busted filters
here, clogged intakes. Helluva cleanup
job, but so far no major damage.
Terri rises, concerned, and turns. Through the distant,
translucent wall of the greenhouse, McConnell's shadowy figure
can be seen, moving slowly.
TERRI
Jim...?
Luke, now in a patched-up pressure suit and grubby-looking
helmet, stands peering down unhappily at the improvised
sledge, with its meager supplies. McConnell, Terri, and Phil
walk up behind him, wearing their helmets again. They hear
Luke over his RADIO.
LUKE
So... let me be sure I understand
this. Your ship blew up, with all
its supplies. Then you emptied the
cargo out of the REMO, and it was
totalled on landing. You've got no
food, no water, no spare oxygen,
nothing but what I see here...?
McConnell and the others are silent, embarrassed. Then
McConnell nods. Luke looks at him, a cracked grin.
LUKE
What kinda rescue mission is this?
MCCONNELL
That kind.
He points to the computer repair case, as Phil lifts it off
a sledge. Luke turns, looks at the case, then Phil.
PHIL
Check it out. New nav boards for the
ERV. I got four round-trip tickets,
baby, right in here.
LUKE
(softly)
Four.
In some mysterious way, this reminder of Woody's death seems
to bring him fully back into himself. He takes Terri by the
shoulders, deeply saddened. She meets his gaze.
LUKE
Terri... I'm so sorry. He was a good
man.
TERRI
Thanks, Luke.
LUKE
When there's time, we'll talk.
She nods, grateful. A beat. He looks at the others.
LUKE
This way.
He starts off across the sand, and they follow.
They stand looking down at the three long mounds of dirt, as
Luke completes his account of the disaster.
LUKE
...When I came to and dug myself out
of the sand, my faceplate was cracked.
Leaking badly. I barely made it back
to Base. It was weeks before I could
work up the nerve to go back out
there and look for their...
He has to pause, collect himself.
LUKE
Renee was the only one I could find.
But it didn't seem right, somehow,
to dig just one grave.
There is an emotional silence. Luke turns, takes a few steps.
He stares into the distance, observing the swirling dust
around them. McConnell hesitates, notices Luke's gaze.
MCCONNELL
Has it been blowing like this for a
while?
(Luke nods)
We saw a big storm from space. But
Micker said it was turning south.
Luke looks off into the distance, studies something only he
seems to see.
LUKE
If it holds course.
McConnell pulls his gaze away from the horizon, looks at
Luke.
MCCONNELL
This -- whatever it was -- this force.
You say it came directly out of the
top of the mountain?
LUKE
You don't believe me. That's okay.
But I'm not crazy, Jim.
McConnell isn't quite sure how to reply to this.
MCCONNELL
What did you mean by its "secret?"
What secret?
LUKE
(pause)
You better see for yourselves.
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
As in the Science Area, this space has enough thin oxygen
for the astronauts to remain unhelmeted. McConnell and Luke
are still going through what few supplies were salvaged from
the REMO.
Luke pauses, rubbing the unfamiliar smoothness of his cheek.
His beard is gone, his hair neatly trimmed. McConnell enjoys
Luke's own wonder at his transformation.
MCCONNELL
How do you feel?
LUKE
Like I just got back my other three
percent.
McConnell smiles. Terri enters through the hatch, removing
her helmet.
TERRI
The backup generator is salvageable,
and two of the solar panels. I'm
pretty sure I can get the oxygen
still back into production, too. So
we're not in such bad shape,
considering.
LUKE
Good work, Terri.
McConnell, rummaging through Phil's backpack, drops an already-
opened bag of M&Ms.; The CANDIES scatter and bounce all over
the floor.
MCCONNELL
Look at that. Phil's idea of absolute
essentials.
Luke and Terri smile. McConnell scoops up the fallen M&Ms.;
He slows down as he does it, looking at the scatter of little
round CANDIES. Something tugging at the back of his mind...
FLASHBACK TO:
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
The familiar, plucky little figure of ARES-8 wheels across
ocher sand, with the radar gun jury-rigged onto its back.
Ares' video snout WHIRRS out, extending. The familiar bass
rumble of the Face is very loud from here.
LUKE
Checking video feed...
Ares-8 whines to a stop by a large boulder, which partially
shields it from the Face, looming beyond. The radar gun
swivels, locating its target. Then stops, ready to fire.
From the radar gun on Ares-8's back, a sharp, high-pitched
electronic burst is emitted, pulsating like a tuning fork as
it's fired towards the Face. After a few seconds it stops.
For a moment nothing happens.
Then the deep bass rumbling stops as well. The only remaining
sound is of WIND, stirring up dust on the Martian plains.
ANGLE ON THE FACE
As suddenly a huge, curved segment of the white surface begins
to rise from the earth, like a gigantic hangar door, sliding
out of sight into an upper sheath of some kind. The movement
is measured, stately, utterly silent. As the segment rises,
it reveals a blinding white light: the interior of the Face.
No inside details can be seen.
McConnell, once again helmeted, emerges from the Hab airlock.
Luke, Terri and Phil are coming out behind him. The wind has
picked up, and fine dust is blowing. They stop, staring off
in astonishment towards
A FRIGHTENING SIGHT
The entire sky has darkened from its customary salmon into
purplish-black at the horizon, with bloody streaks above.
The DUST STORM has turned their way; it's now sixty kilometers
away and closing. The main body of it reaches two thousand
meters above the surface and stretches out along a thousand-
kilometer front.
THE ASTRONAUTS
Stare at this unholy juggernaut, alarmed. McConnell turns to
Luke, whose expression is grim.
MCCONNELL
How long before it hits?
LUKE
An hour? Maybe less.
MCCONNELL
How bad?
LUKE
A storm like that? It could go
planetary. And last a year.
McConnell stares at him.
LUKE
It'll sock us in, Jim. We won't be
able to take off. If that happens,
with what few supplies we've got
left...? We'll starve to death.
McConnell turns, staring off towards the killer storm. The
others look at him with questioning gazes. He turns again.
There's the four-man rover, ready to go. Waiting.
MCCONNELL
Phil, how much longer to prep the
ERV?
PHIL
Maybe forty-five minutes. It'll be
tight, but we can make it.
MCCONNELL
Then there's still time for us to
get out there and back.
He looks a question at Luke and Terri, one after the other.
Their eyes, tense but excited, signal agreement.
MCCONNELL
Stay here. Continue the repair. If
something goes wrong, you get out of
here before that storm hits.
PHIL
Go back... alone?
MCCONNELL
If we're not back in forty-five
minutes, I want you to prep and
launch.
(looks at his armpad
display)
That's 1950 hours.
PHIL
Jim --
MCCONNELL
It's not a suggestion, it's an order.
You understand?
PHIL
(reluctantly)
I understand. But --
MCCONNELL
You understand what?
PHIL
If you're not back by 1950, I prep
and launch.
McConnell nods, satisfied. Looks at Terri and Luke.
MCCONNELL
Let's go.
They start towards the four-man rover. Dust is swirling more
thickly through the air, and the WIND IS LOUDER NOW. Phil
stands watching them go, a lone, rather forlorn figure.
In a WIDE SHOT, we see the rover approaching the Face, across
the plains. The sky beyond the Face is almost black, as the
storm approaches from that direction. It's marching
relentlessly across the planet, with flashes of lightning
now rippling up and down its face, and even small tornadoes
spinning off near its purple-black base...
In a HIGH SHOT, we look down across the side of the Face and
its vast, open doorway, out of which the bright white light
is streaming. Into this corridor of light, we see the rover
arrive, slewing to a stop, throwing sand from its wheels.
GROUND LEVEL SHOT
Looking at the cavernous vertical gap in the side of the
Face. The opening towers to a dizzying height above us; the
white light strains our eyes. The three astronauts ENTER
FRAME as we see them, from behind, staring up.
ON THE ASTRONAUTS' AWED FACES
As they are stunned by the immensity of the scene, the cosmic
mystery before them. Luke and Terri look at McConnell. Another
moment of critical decision. He keys his mike.
MCCONNELL
Phil, do you read me?
McConnell stares into the bright opening. Bathed in its light.
MCCONNELL
We're at the Face. We're gonna need
a few minutes here. Same deadline,
launch at 1950. With or without us.
Do you copy?
PHIL
(pause)
Copy that.
Terri and Luke exchange a tense glance.
TERRI
Jim, are you sure you want to do
this?
MCCONNELL
I'm not sure of anything anymore.
But I didn't come a hundred million
miles just to turn back in the last
ten feet.
Luke smiles. The three of them stare into the portal.
McConnell, between the others, reaches out and grips each of
them by a gloved hand. They take a sort of collective breath.
Then they walk forward together, into the light.
The hanger-like hatch has reopened, and Luke and Terri,
helmeted again, emerge from the Face. The leading edge of
the dust storm is upon them. They can't see much more than a
few meters.
As they reach the rover, they hear, even in this chaos, that
the deep pulsing tone of the Face has started again. They
look at each other, uncertain what this means. But McConnell
is now beyond their help. Luke keys his mike.
LUKE
Phil? Phil, do you read?
(to Terri)
He's not reading.
TERRI
I can barely read you. Let's get the
hell out of here!
The rover, with Luke and Terri inside, races away towards
the safety of the ERV, as the maelstrom boils over the Face
behind them. The sky is purplish black, thick with flying
debris and eerie lightning flashes. Towering billows of dust
chase them over the plain, nearly enveloping them as they
speed towards us, passing OUT OF FRAME.
The Rover races towards us, the front of the storm chasing
it from behind, then completely overtaking the Rover. It
disappears from view!
FROM GROUND LEVEL we see that the coils of energy are rising
from the forehead of the Face, from its "third eye," spinning
and looping faster and faster, starting to form a vortex.
But unlike the wind vortex that killed the Mars One crew,
this is a vortex of fire. As we watch, more fiery streaks
begin to emerge from the sides of the Face, from the chin,
cheeks and temples. These all rush upwards, like lava flowing
uphill, gathering in intensity as they leap free of the Face
itself and spiral into the atmosphere. The peak of the forming
vortex is already piercing the lowest layer of storm clouds,
causing a dark counter-swirl.
Phil stands at the bottom of the ERV's ladder, gripping it
to steady himself, staring into the swirling dust.
THE ROVER appears out of the dust and sand, the immense storm
seeming to chase it from behind. Luke and Terri climb out,
struggle towards him through the wind. Phil grips their hands,
helping them over to the ladder. He looks back, confused.
PHIL
Where's Jim?
TERRI
He got another ride.
Phil stares at her, bewildered.
LUKE
Tell you on the way. Let's go!
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
WIDEVIEW FROM ABOVE, as the energy vortex bends from side to
side, pushing back the swirling storm that surrounds the
Face. As the vortex coalesces its energy into a cylindrical
shape, we see through its center to a rising form -- the
Martian ship. It is a flattened convex circle whose matte-
metallic angles replicate the "Face" imagery.
As the Face burns away around us, the Martian ship begins to
rise and spin.
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
The vortex is now a tight, rapidly spinning cylinder. As it
draws more and more power from the disintegrating Face, the
Martian ship in its center spins faster and faster.
WIDE VIEW, FROM ABOVE, as the energy vortex changes from red-
orange to blue-white. It ROARS with terrifying power as its
top starts to bend, angling like a telescope towards a
specific point in the stars. Then the Martian ship -- a
rounded darker form, little more than a blip within the vast,
blue-white column of energy -- shoots away from the surface,
leaving only a blacked crater where the Face had been.
ANGLE FROM DEEP SPACE, LOOKING DOWN, as the Martian ship,
riding its blue-white column of energy, streaks up into the
vast blackness, like a narrowly focused spotlight piercing
the night. Down below, we can see the dust storm in all its
vastness still boiling orange and brown across the planet's
surface, which it now completely covers.
As the Martian ship flashes by us, it passes another ship,
much smaller and slower, rising through the storm clouds on
a different trajectory. We recognize the familiar, comfortable
sight of the ERV.
PUSHING IN QUICKLY ON THIS.
We see three figures in the cockpit.
OMITTED
Sequence omitted from original script.
Looking through the cockpit window we see the Martian ship
receding into the infinite distance of space -- a long blue-
white scratch that in moments begins to fade. Finally it is
a tiny point of light, taking its place amongst the limitless
expanse of the star-filled heavens.
THE END
Mission to Mars
Writers : Lowell CannonJim ThomasJohn ThomasGraham Yost
Genres : DramaSci-FiThrillerAdventure
User Comments
Back to IMSDb