We're suddenly back into the unsettling silence as... like a
bee hive that's exploded, thousands of coffin-sized sleep
pods are ejected from the ship in unison. They are sent
tumbling into open space in every direction as the ship
slowly continues its unaffected course.
(CONTINUED)
3.
CONTINUED:
The trapped OFFICER is seen SCREAMING in silence inside his
own pod.
DISSOLVE TO:
We slowly float towards an astroid field. As we grow closer
it's the sea of sleep pods slowly floating through space.
BOWER (P.O.)
Where was I... when I heard we'd lost
Eden? Just like every other kid on my
block... I was dreaming... of being one
who would be chosen to follow.
As we move closer to the asteroid field of sleep pods, it's
obvious that time has passed, a single skeleton inside each
of the pods, hands in a clawing position towards the glass.
We PUSH IN towards one pod, moving towards the SKULL, still
locked in a SCREAMING position, wide mouthed and...
CUT TO:
M. HYPER-SLEEP CHAMBER
A RUMBLE passes... EYELIDS TWITCH... A GASP.
Inside a coffin-size chamber, a dim glow of light seeps
through a small glass porthole. A MAN is asleep, a mask
attached to his face, tubes of liquid feeding into his arms.
CORPORAL BOWER, military physique, chiseled features. His
chest lightly expanding, blood pulsating through his veins.
Lights FLICKER PAST and his body comes to life, muscles
flinching, breath quickening. He squirms with discomfort,
ripping away the mask. He gasps, trying to SCREAM.
CUT TO:
BOWER kicks open the hatch, gasping for breath. A gentle
breeze ripples across the water with a sunlight flickering
across the surface of an ocean.
He pulls NADIA out of the chamber, ripping the mask off her
face. Her eye-lids slowly begin to flicker back to
consciousness.
BOWER
Hey...? Hey?
She chokes on the air and struggles to orientate herself,
looking up to see him gazing down at her, coated with bright
sunlight.
NADIA
(GASPING)
Where are we? What happened?
BOWER
(GRIN)
It's all right. It's safe to wake up
this time.
I
With eyes of disbelief, they turn to see...
WIDE ANGLE
They sit on the edge of the sleep chamber as it lightly bobs
within the ocean waves. They're just off shore from a
stretch of mountainous tropical islands with waves crashing
against the beaches. The unusual shape of the islands and
their geography are nothing like we've ever seen on Earth.
Several moons dot the sky and the sun is rising with a
brilliant glow on the horizon.
FADE TO BLACK:
