A DREAMLIKE FOG
A form drifts forward, materializing out of the fog.
It's a CASKET. Appearing as if it's floating among the clouds.
PULLING BACK, WE SEE that it's moving along A CONVEYOR. AND NOW,
WE CAN make out the faint form of A PLANE as the conveyor descends
from the cargo compartment.
The casket reaches the end of the conveyor. A tag marks its final
destination: Bangor, Maine. HANDS reach in and lift the casket.
FOUR BAGGAGE HANDLERS hoist the casket up onto their shoulders and
carry it off.
HANDLER #1
Is it true she grew up around
here?
HANDLER #2
Yeah. Over in Ludlow.
HANDLER #1
Huh. Never met a movie star
before.
HANDLER #3
Well you're a little late for an
autograph.
The baggage handlers laugh as they walk off into the distance. The
fog closes around them and we...
DISSOLVE TO:
PLEASANTVILLE CEMETERY - DAY
We drift down from the gray sky to the somber scene below. Off in
the distance, a crowd of MOURNERS are gathered around a grave.
PRIEST (V.O.)
...I am the resurrection and the
life, saith the Lord...
CLOSER -
THE HEADSTONE is adorned with an iron plaque. It reads, simply:
RENEE HALLOW MATTHEWS
1955-1991
PRIEST (V.O.)
...She that believeth in me,
though she were dead, yet shall
she live; and whosoever liveth and
believeth in me, shall never
die...
THE CASKET is slowly lowered into the open grave. As it descends,
WE SEE Geoff and his father, Chase, standing at the forefront of
the crowd. Renee's grave is next to those of her parents.
Among the mourners is MARJORIE HARGROVE, an attractive local girl
in her early twenties.
Further down the hillside, a wall of NEWS REPORTERS are gathered
behind a roped-off media boundary. There is a blinding flurry of
PHOTO FLASHES as the press records the scene before them.
A SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT PATROL CAR cruises up the cemetery drive,
pulling to a stop near the mob of reporters.
Out of the car steps GUS GILBERT. Gus is nearly forty, with a
Sheriff's uniform fitted to his solid, ageless frame. Gruff, maybe
a little self-important: Gus likes being a big fish in a small
pond.
GUS
(drawing near)
Let's keep it back, folks.
Try to show her a little
respect...
A REPORTER ducks under the media boundary, moving in for a closer
shot.
He doesn't make it two steps before he's intercepted by Gus. Gus
grabs the reporter and shoves him back.
GUS
Hey! What did I just say?
Gus means business. One look into his eyes reveals his intense, no
nonsense approach.
REPORTER
Ass-hole...
The reporter backs off.
BACK AT THE GRAVESIDE -
Beneath the gloomy, ominous skies, the lines on Chase's face shade
him as a decade older than his thirty-five years. Chase gently
places a comforting hand on Geoff's shoulder.
Geoff inches forward, pulling free of Chase's touch. Drawn to his
mother, drawn from his father. The only blemishes on his youthful,
rosy cheeks are the tears, the endless tears.
PRIEST (V.O.)
I know that my redeemer liveth,
and that he shall stand at the
latter day upon the earth.
Geoff looks upon the casket, gazing into the abyss of despair.
FOLLOWING THE CEREMONY
The crowd has dispersed.
Geoff is standing at the base of Renee's grave. His eyes fixed.
Unmoving. Unaccepting.
Chase is nearby, watching, not wanting to intrude on Geoff's
private moment.
Gus quietly moves in at Chase's side.
GUS
Did she always have reporters
following her around like this?
CHASE
Pretty much so.
Gus glances at Geoff.
GUS
I hear you moved into town.
CHASE
I wanted to get Geoff out of
L.A. Just start things over, you
know?
Gus nods. Now his eyes fall on Renee's headstone.
GUS
I remember when Renee left. She
couldn't wait to get out of
Ludlow. She used to say that
life moved too slow here...
Chase forces a smile.
CHASE
That's Renee alright.
GUS
I suppose so.
The sky above seems heavy with imminent rain and we...
CUT TO:
12
OMITTED
THRU
15
OMITTED
HOUSE - DAY
Lazy oaks embrace a vintage, two-story Victorian home in the rural
neighborhood of Ludlow, Maine. A commercial MOVING VAN is parked
out front.
Marjorie, the girl we saw at Renee's funeral, is coming down the
sidewalk. She checks the address on the front of the house, then
heads up the driveway.
DRIVEWAY - DAY
A VAN is parked outside. The rear side panel is masked off with
tape and a stencil. Chase grabs the corner of the tape and
carefully peels it back, revealing a crisp, new business logo:
ROUND THE CLOCK ANIMAL DOC
MOBILE VETERINARY SERVICE
CHASE MATTHEWS, D.V.M.
Serving Aroostook County
TOWN - DAY
ESTABLISHING. Shops and businesses situated around a lazy town
square. QUiet. Relaxed. As rural as they come.
WE pick up Chase's van as it cruises by.
VETERINARY OFFICE - DAY
Chase pulls the van in front of an unassuming veterinary office.
On the door is Chase's nameplate. And on the weathered wall is an
outline of letters where the name and title "Quentin Yolander,
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine" once was.
Geoff is first out of the van.
SCHOOL - DAY
JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL KIDS are converging en masse for classes.
Chase's van pulls up front.
VAN - DAY
As Chase pulls away, WE SEE the handmade sign taped in the back
window:
PRICELESS KITTENS
FREE TO A GOOD HOME
SCHOOL - DAY
Drew is among a small circle of BOYS. He recognizes Geoff walking
his bike from the van. The largest of the boys, CLYDE, takes
notice of the unfamiliar face.
Clyde is fifteen, going on twenty. You know the type: local bully,
held back a year or two.
CLYDE
Check it out. That's the new kid.
The son of that movie star.
Mischief gleams in Clyde's eyes as he watches Geoff's every move.
The other boys follow suit. Clyde always takes the lead.
Geoff fields their penetrating stares. For a second his eyes
connect with Clyde's, then he moves on into the building.
Among the boys, Drew is the reluctant participant.
SCHOOL - DAY
Geoff rushes from the building, searching the dispersing crowd.
There they are, tearing from the bike racks, pedaling for the
street.
Clyde sees Geoff and mockingly holds the kitten out for display as
they ride by.
Geoff runs for the bike racks.
ROAD - DAY
Clyde and his cohorts break from the outskirts of town, riding out
onto the open road.
Clyde glances back toward the center of town.
Geoff is so far behind he's barely visible.
Clyde returns his eyes to the road ahead, raising Tiger nose to
nose with him.
CLYDE
Having fun yet?
Clyde and his smirking buddies ride on, OUT OF FRAME.
WITH GEOFF
giving the pedals all he can, struggling to keep pace with the
boys.
35
OMITTED
FURTHER ALONG
Scattered houses sprinkle the landscape ahead. Cochran Lake
stretches into the distance beyond the housing.
Clyde's clan cuts from the road and blazes a trail across a
residential property. The two-story house is weathered and boarded
up. It looks vaguely familiar. Creepy.
And when WE FIND the mailbox post, we know why. The name is faded,
but there's no question who once lived there. Five bold letters:
"CREED."
Geoff whips by in a blur, still in pursuit.
COUNTRYSIDE - DAY
Clyde and his friends have abandoned their bikes. They've taken
position on top of the slope of the hill, standing at the foot of
THE PATH TO THE PET SEMATARY.
38
OMITTED
PET SEMATARY PATH - DAY
Geoff pulls his bike to a stop short of the boys. He dismounts and
leans it up against a tree.
GEOFF
Just give me the cat, all right?
A devilish grin creeps over Clyde. He strolls down the path toward
Geoff. Clyde grabs Geoff's handlebars and, backing up, pulls Geoff
and the bike with him.
CLYDE
I would but... there was a little
accident...
(feeding off Geoff's
alarm)
She was trying to get away. You
know, running down my leg... and
her head got too close to the
spokes. Pretty gross. What's
left of her is up in the Pet
Sematary. A zip-lock bag might
help...
(shrugs)
...but I happen to be out of them
at the moment.
Drew shakes his head, disgusted he has to put up with Clyde's
antics.
DREW
Come on, Clyde, just tell him
where the cat is...
CLYDE
(turning on Drew)
...I TOLD HIM where the cat is!
Now shut up, fuck-face!
Clyde punches Drew in the arm. Drew shrinks back.
Geoff flashes a hateful stare at Clyde.
All of the boys but Clyde are uncomfortably silent. There's
something frightening about Clyde... something that extends beyond
the standard bully antics. We begin to get the feeling that this
kid is genuinely deranged.
CLYDE
(relishing the
moment)
You heard about the Creed murders
yet? And the place where the dead
come back to life?
He motions to the path behind him.
CLYDE
(continuing)
It's just back there. Just down
that path...
DREW
(meekly)
Clyde... it's not funny anymore.
CLYDE
Oh? So you got a problem?
What're you gonna do, fat-ass? You
gonna sic big, bad, old Gus after
me?
Drew shuts up. Clyde turns back to Geoff, drawing closer.
CLYDE
What do you think, Geoff? Maybe
you could dig up your Mom and take
her back there. Maybe if you pray
real hard, she'll come back.
With this last remark Clyde has pushed too far. Geoff's face is
red with anger.
GEOFF
(quietly)
Just give me the cat, ass-hole.
Clyde's grin falters a moment.
CLYDE
Excuse me, maybe I'm a little hard
of hearing... but did you just call
me an ass-hole?
Clyde pokes Geoff in the shoulder.
CLYDE
You mad, Geoff? Cause if you are,
you should take a shot at me...
This time Clyde shoves Geoff back even harder.
CLYDE
Come on, you pussy! What's the
matter with you?
Clyde moves forward again and Geoff suddenly LASHES OUT, catching
everyone off guard.
For an instant, Drew marvels at Geoff's tenacity.
Clyde LUNGES. He hammers Geoff with blows.
Outsizing him by forty pounds, Clyde tosses Geoff to the ground.
Geoff struggles, but Clyde's grip proves arresting.
Clyde throws Geoff onto his stomach, forcing his face into the
dirt. It looks as if he's ready to smother his opponent.
Drew is the first to rush in. Brad and Stevie quickly follow. It
takes all three of them to peel Clyde off Geoff.
Clyde gets to his feet and backs away. There's great pleasure in
his crazed eyes as he watches Geoff coughing and gasping.
CLYDE
Fuckin' ass-hole.
Satisfied he's handed out enough ill will for the day, Clyde turns
away.
Drew's attentions remain on Geoff. As Clyde strolls by, he grabs
Drew's arm and swings him around.
CLYDE
This way, fat-boy.
Stevie and Brad follow. As the group passes Geoff's bike, Clyde
gives it a kick, knocking it over. Then they're gone.
Geoff pulls himself to his feet. Brushing off the mess, he heads
up the path in search of Tiger.
PET SEMATARY - DAY
The woods here have grown long with shadows. The air is still and
the sound of birds is conspicuously absent.
A WOODEN ARCHWAY frames the entrance to the primitive graveyard.
Scrawled across the weatherstained boards is a child's barely
legible attempt at "PET SEMATARY."
Geoff trepidatiously enters the clearing of crude, crowded graves.
Collars, leashes, bird cages and other accessories adorn the
makeshift crosses and headstones.
Geoff moves along the outer circle of markers, each crafted by a
child's caring hands.
As he searches, he can't help but notice the heartfelt epitaphs.
On the outer circle, he sees a crate-board marker memorializing:
SMUCKY THE CAT... HE WAS OBEDIANT.
MOVING INWARD, the markers are older. The ones he can still read
convey a sense of the perpetual cycle of life and death.
Here is a wide, flat, upright board planted deep in the earth: "In
Memory of MARTA our Pet Rabit Dyed March 1 1965."
The next three rows are illegible, the inscriptions are weathered
beyond recognition... And then, chiseled into sandstone: HANNAH
THE BEST DOG THAT EVER LIVED 1929-1939.
And now... "MEOW." Faint. But very much alive.
Geoff picks up his pace, weaving quickly toward the center.
There, he finds Tiger. Trapped in a rusted old birdcage, its base
swallowed by the grave.
Geoff opens the door and frees Tiger, stroking the trembling
kitten.
Geoff's eyes are drawn to the far perimeter... to the deadfall...
THE DEADFALL looms on the outskirts of the clearing like a pile of
skeletal remains. An abstract stairway to things beyond. A wind
picks up just then, sending leaves skittering in waves across the
ground.
40
OMITTED
PET SEMATARY PATH - DAY
When Geoff turns around, he finds Drew waiting for him under the
archway. Drew smiles, full of respect for Geoff.
DREW
I've never seen anybody punch
Clyde before.
GEOFF
(shrugs)
He pissed me off.
DREW
(his smile fading)
Sorry about your mom.
(beat)
I couldn't handle not having my
mom around. Just having Gus...
He grimaces at the thought.
GEOFF
My dad's not so bad.
Drew glances around at all the makeshift grave markers.
DREW
I swear, sometimes I wish Gus was
dead...
GEOFF
(serious)
You shouldn't ever say that about
your parents, not even your Dad.
DREW
Stepdad. Gus is my stepdad.
Geoff nods knowingly.
GEOFF
What was all that stuff about dead
people coming back to life?
DREW
Nothing. It's just an old ghost
story. Let's get out of here...
They head off, full of childhood.
DREW'S HOUSE - DUSK
CRUDE CAGES HOUSE DOZENS OF RABBITS. Situated alongside the
garage. A sign above the cages reads: PET RABBITS - $10.00. Bells
positioned along the roof threaten to reveal foul play.
Gus is rigging a wire along the base of the cage.
Finishing it off, he hangs the plug next to an outside socket.
Moving onto the next chore, he pours pressed alfalfa pellets into
feeding slots for the hungry rabbits.
Setting the feed aside, he takes a seat. Opening one of the cages,
he grabs a rabbit and sets it on his lap, gently petting its soft
fur.
One of the cages starts to vibrate.
Gus gives it a look: A PAIR OF RABBITS aren't interested in
eating, they're joined in fast and furious passion.
Gus gets a chuckle out of the sight.
GUS
Way to go, Romeo...
Gus replaces the rabbit in the hutch. And before he goes, HE SINKS
THE PLUG INTO THE SOCKET. An ELECTRICAL CHARGE dances along the
base of the cage, a deterrent for intruders.
DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Drew walks Zowie from the house with a dish of dog food. As they
pass the rabbit dens, Zowie alters his path. Drew gets a handful
of his collar and pulls him back.
Across the yard is an enclosed dog run. Twenty feet long by ten
feet wide. Drew puts Zowie inside with the dog food.
Drew strokes Zowie's mane affectionately, then backs away, closing
the wood-framed door to the dog run.
ZOWIE'S DOG RUN - NIGHT
MOVING THROUGH Zowie's enclosed pen, WE SEE no sign of the dog.
REACHING the door, WE FIND that the wood around the bottom hinge
has been chewed through. The base of the door is ajar, just enough
for a dog to have slipped through.
RABBIT CAGES - NIGHT
In the still of the night, Gus' rabbit pens sit unattended. And
then WE HEAR the tinkling of dog tags. Snoozing rabbits awaken as
Zowie lumbers INTO FRAME.
Zowie rises on his hind legs, pressing his paws to a cage. Blue
sparks fly as Zowie is jolted with the electrical charge.
RABBIT CAGES - NIGHT
Zowie swings his head in the direction of the house as Gus bursts
through the back door. Drew is one step behind.
Gus swings the gun up and fires off a SHOT.
Zowie bolts for the shadows of the hillside.
Drew rushes in and deflects the aim of the rifle.
DREW
Don't shoot him!
Gus' eyes are wild with anger.
GUS
What, Drew? What did you say?!
Gus throws Drew aside, brings the rifle back up and FIRES another
random shot after the fleeing dog. All the while, his eyes remain
on Drew, as if this were the boy's lesson to be learned.
He squeezes off one more SHOT...
A PAINED YELP echoes from the hillside. Zowie's yelp.
Drew whips his head aside in sickened shock. Even Gus is sobered
by the unexpected hit.
All they can hear now are Zowie's WHIMPERING CRIES diminishing in
the night.
Drew shoots Gus a look of such unbridled hatred that Gus is
speechless. He backs away from Gus and darts off toward the dark
hillside.
When Gus turns back for the house, Amanda is standing there.
AMANDA
Jesus, Gus, what have you done?
GUS
Ah, come on, Amanda, stop looking
at me like that. He's had ample
warning about that dog.
Amanda glares at him, an outpouring of pent-up strain.
Gus defiantly marches past Amanda, entering the house without ever
meeting eyes with her.
WOODS - NIGHT
Drew pauses long enough to listen for Zowie...
Nothing until a FAINT CRY drifts back at him.
DEEPER IN THE WOODS
Zowie limps INTO FRAME. Blood is flowing from the bullet wound in
his left hindquarter, trailing from his suspended leg. Every step
is a strain.
DREW
comes upon a break in the trees. The hanging moon outlines the
knoll stretching beyond. And then, the strained breathing, the
hushed WHIMPER.
Drew hesitantly approaches the crest of the knoll.
Zowie is just beyond, lying on his side at the end of the bloody
trail. His chest rises and falls almost imperceptibly with every
effort to survive.
Drew drops to his knees at Zowie's side and cradles the dog in his
lap, shaking his head in denial.
Zowie's weak eyes shift, gazing longingly at Drew.
Drew strokes the fur under Zowie's chin, hardly able to see the
dog through his glaze of tears.
Zowie's eyes drift off. His chest falls and doesn't rise again. He
falls limp in Drew's arms. Drew hugs Zowie even tighter and he
begins to weep.
FROM A DISTANCE
WE SEE the image of Drew with the dog cradled in his arms,
silhouetted against the moonlit horizon.
DISSOLVE TO:
53
OMITTED
GEOFF'S HOUSE - MORNING
Geoff appears from the garage with his bike and takes off for the
road. A WHISTLE catches his ear.
Drew is at the edge of the woods, beckoning for Geoff.
Geoff circles around and doubles back.
GEOFF
I was just going by your house.
Where's your bike?
The closer Geoff gets, the more he sees of Drew's despair. Then he
sees the dried blood staining Drew's clothes.
DREW
Zowie's dead.
Geoff's heart sinks. An unspoken moment of sympathy passes between
the boys. Fighting the emotions, Drew finally speaks.
DREW
I have to bury him. I don't want
to go out there alone.
There's such grief in Drew's words that Geoff can't resist. He
glances toward his house to make sure he hasn't been seen, then
blends into the woods.
PET SEMATARY - DAY
Drew carries Zowie's relaxed form in his arms. Geoff is following,
balancing a pickaxe and shovel.
Arriving at the graveyard, Geoff searches the outer perimeter for
a vacant stretch of soil. Finding one, he lets the heavy tools
fall to the ground.
GEOFF
Is this a good spot?
DREW
I'm not burying him here...
GEOFF
Why not?
DREW
There's a better place...
Drew heads for the base of the deadfall, with Zowie in his arms.
DREW
It's back here somewhere, through
the Indian woods. I know we can
find it...
Drew continues up the deadfall, disappearing over the crest.
Geoff gathers up the shovel and pickaxe and follows after him.
GEOFF
Hey, wait up!
THE BOG - DAY
Geoff climbs over the peak of the deadfall...
Beyond is a dark swamp, A BOG, looking unlike anything one would
expect in Maine. Tendrils of ground fog swirl about vegetation
that looks almost prehistoric. Gnarled trees rise up from the
murky earth, blocking the sun from view.
Geoff hurries down the other side of the deadfall to catch up with
Drew. Somewhere off in the distance we hear an UNEARTHLY SOUND.
Not a bird. Not any animal known to man.
Spectral shapes flicker at the edge of Geoff's vision, sinking
back into the shadows as Geoff tries to focus on them.
GEOFF
(uneasy)
Drew, where are we going?
Drew doesn't respond. He continues on without another word, hell-
bent on finding this "better place."
FURTHER ALONG - DAY
At the boundary of the bog, A STAIRWAY OF HUGE, WIDE STONES rises
from the blanket of ground fog. Bordered by fir trees. Leading up
the hillside. The final leg of Drew and Geoff's journey.
DREW
This is it... I wasn't sure if it
even really existed.
GEOFF
What did?
DREW
The old Indian burial ground.
Geoff's eyes move to the stairway of stones.
GEOFF
Come on, that's just a bullshit
story. You said so yourself...
DREW
What if it's not bullshit? If I
bury Zowie there, and it works...
(beat)
...he'll come back alive.
GEOFF
Drew, I know your dog died, but...
get a grip, man, you're freaking
me out.
DREW
Look, if there was even one chance
in a million it'd work, wouldn't
you want to try?
Geoff feels for Drew. It's pointless to reason.
Drew starts up the stone steps. Geoff has no choice but to follow.
MICMAC BURIAL GROUND - DAY
Even in broad daylight, the flat-topped mesa has a sense of
foreboding isolation. There's an almost palpable sense of
"wrongness" about this place. As if the darkness of a dying black
hole was seeping out of the ground and spreading across the earth.
Drew and Geoff approach the circle of rocky soil. They stand at
the border, looking it over in eerie silence.
Somewhere off in the distance we hear the unearthly SOUND again,
only this time, it's closer.
GEOFF
Look, let's just get this over
with.
Even Drew seems to have awakened from the haze he had fallen into.
He gently sets Zowie's body on the ground.
DREW
If this doesn't work... don't ever
tell anyone I did this, okay? You
gotta promise...
Geoff nods and hands over the digging tools. Drew swings the
pickaxe, sinking it into the ground.
GEOFF
You want me to help?
DREW
You have to bury your own. That's
the way the Indians did it. It's
like a rule...
Backing away from the burial ground, Geoff takes a seat on a rock
at the border of the forest. From there, he watches.
Drew alternates the pickaxe and shovel as he clears a hole in the
rocky ground.
WE MOVE IN ON GEOFF, who's looking on with skeptical intrigue as
the rhythmic SOUND of the tools continues.
59
OMITTED
LATER -
A cairn is complete: a conical pile of rocks over Zowie's grave.
Drew is now sitting on the rock next to Geoff. Together, they
stare at the cairn as if Zowie might climb from beneath at any
moment.
DREW
What if he really does come back?
Geoff shrugs, pondering such a thought.
Geoff digs into his pocket and produces a pack of gum, offering
one to Drew. With only a quick glance away from the grave, Drew
snatches a piece and he stuffs it into his mouth. Geoff does the
same.
They sit together in silence. Nervously chewing their gum.
Watching the grave.
DREW
I've never had anyone die
before...
(beat)
...but I guess you get over it. I
mean, eventually...
GEOFF
(quietly)
You never get over it.
COUNTRYSIDE - AFTERNOON
The sun dips over the horizon, giving way to dusk.
MICMAC BURIAL GROUND - DUSK
Geoff's eyes shift from the grave to the darkening sky.
GEOFF
It's getting pretty late. We
better go.
DREW
(disappointed)
Yeah...
They rise, leaving the burial ground. En route, Drew pauses for a
last look at the grave.
DREW
So long, Zowie...
Geoff follows, glancing back at the burial ground. It looks
magical in the twilight, not quite so sinister now.
ROAD - NIGHT
Drew is walking home along the road, alone.
Headlights blind him as a car approaches. It slows and pulls a U-
turn, stopping at Drew's side. It's Gus' squad car. He pushes open
the passenger door.
GUS
Get in.
Drew takes a step back, shaking his head.
GUS
Your momma's worried sick over
you. You take off in the middle
of the night, you don't show up
for school. What're you trying to
prove?
DREW
I'm not trying to prove anything.
(beat)
I was burying my dog.
Gus turns his eyes away, focusing on the dark road ahead.
GUS
Life is full of lessons. No one's
above it. Not you. Not me...
Now get in the car.
After a moment, Drew approaches the car. Without another word, Gus
drives off.
64
OMITTED
RABBIT CAGE - NIGHT
It's quiet now. And out of the silence comes the JINGLING of
Zowie's dog tags. Zowie's LONG SHADOW creeps over the cage,
distorted to monstrous proportion by the flickering light.
We move past the cages to the back porch...
We see ZOWIE'S PAW scratching at the door.
BACK PORCH - NIGHT
Amanda appears at the door. She unlatches it, stepping outside.
AMANDA
Zowie?
Amanda looks down and SCREAMS.
DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Gus, Amanda, Drew and Geoff are gathered around Chase's van.
CHASE'S VAN - NIGHT
Chase lays Zowie on his side on an examining table and shines an
overhead light onto the wound.
Geoff is looking in from outside, utterly bewildered by the
living, breathing dog.
CHASE
How'd it happen?
Gus casts a threatening glance in Drew's direction.
DREW
(glaring at Gus)
Some psycho hunter probably got
trigger happy...
Chase is too busy preparing a syringe to notice the nonverbal
exchange.
CHASE
I'm going to give Zowie a local
anaesthetic so I can clean up the
wound. I'd like to take him home
tonight for observation.
AMANDA
Fine.
DREW
Can you keep him at your place
until he gets better?
CHASE
Sure...
Drew tenderly strokes Zowie's mane as Chase administers the
injection. Zowie stares up at Geoff with dull, blank eyes.
Drew reads Geoff's bewilderment and joins him outside the van.
Their words are clear, but whispered.
GEOFF
Maybe he wasn't dead when we
buried him.
DREW
He was dead. You know he was.
Geoff returns his stare to Zowie.
DREW
You can't tell anyone, Geoff.
Ever.
Geoff looks into Drew's eyes and nods in understanding.
69
OMITTED
THRU
75
OMITTED
TOWN, CHASE'S OFFICE - NIGHT
A SNARLING WEREWOLF rushing at us.
Chase jumps back, frightened out of his wits and we realize...
The werewolf is part of a group of COSTUMED KIDS out trick-or-
treating. The kids LAUGH at Chase's reaction and hurry on,
dragging their candy loot bags behind them.
Chase sighs and turns to lock the office door. He's closing up for
the night.
He climbs into his Mobile Vet Van. We HOLD ON the new sign in the
back window: "A HALLOWEEN TREAT. FREE KITTENS." Beneath that is a
pencil-sketch of a black arched-back kitten.
PET SEMATARY - NIGHT
Dark clouds paint the foreboding sky. A broken pulse of lightning
streaks through the dense haze.
Abandoning their bikes next to the path, Drew and Geoff approach
the archway. The graveyard beyond is deathly silent.
They pass beneath the archway, entering the clearing.
And now, a soft, chilling VOICE drifts over the graves.
VOICE (O.S.)
Geoff, honey. Mommy's here...
Geoff freezes in his tracks, awestruck as...
A WOMAN'S BODY
swoops down from the darkness above, materializing out of nowhere.
A fluttering negligee. Flowing blonde hair.
RENEE'S FACE appears out of the shadows, masked with sadness.
Geoff swallows the lump in his throat.
Renee's form keeps coming. But even as she approaches, her visage
grows less distinguishable. Just a phantom countenance now. A
shadow framed by golden hair, resting atop a veiled body...
She's coming so fast that she's upon Geoff in no time. He fumbles
back, startled out of his wits...
THE BODY is upon him now, flailing wildly. Geoff thrashes and
struggles, screaming bloody murder.
Gradually, he realizes the body isn't fighting back. Geoff eases
his struggle, lets his scream fall off.
Now he hears wild, mischievous LAUGHTER.
Drew pulls the body away. It's just a heavy wad of stuffed
clothing: A DUMMY dressed in a negligee, capped by a blonde wig.
It dangles near the end of a slanted wire.
Clyde, Stevie, Brad, and a half dozen other costumed KIDS appear
from the nearby cover of bushes, doubled over in laughter.
Clyde tugs at a piece of twine that's connected to the back of the
dummy's head and makes spooky sounds. The dummy jumps around on
the slanted wire.
Clyde drops the dummy and saunters forward.
CLYDE
Look at this, Junior here
practically shit his pants.
Clyde drops down, nose to nose with Geoff, who's still recovering.
CLYDE
Maybe you're too chicken to hang
out with the rest of the boys.
You gonna run home to Daddy now?
Geoff brushes himself off and rises to his feet. He stares into
Clyde's eyes.
GEOFF
Fuck off.
Geoff pushes past Clyde and moves on into the graveyard, somehow
managing to keep his dignity intact.
Drew follows, then the rest of the boys, leaving Clyde staring
after them, standing alone with the dummy.
DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Gus' squad car slows to a stop outside. Gus swings open the door
and ambles toward the porch.
DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Wheels spin as Gus' squad car streaks off into the night. The
cherry top glows to life, bombarding the countryside.
PET SEMATARY - NIGHT
By now, nearly TWO DOZEN COSTUMED KIDS have gathered at the Pet
Sematary. In the midst of the graves, a small story-telling
campfire burns. A number of the boys sip beer, trying to pretend
that the bitter after-taste doesn't bother them.
Clyde sits up front. At fourteen, he's the elder statesmen of the
group. With a beer in one hand, and a cigarette in the other,
Clyde is just finishing up a spooky yarn.
CLYDE
...yeah, that old Louis was one
sick fuck... digging up little Gage
like so, maggots pouring out of
that kid's eyes...
Clyde whistles. He drags on his cigarette and puffs out a smoke
ring. Sees he still has an audience.
CLYDE
Ellie was the only Creed that
lived. Then one night a few
months later, Ellie freaks out,
and she hacks up her grandparents
with an axe!
(beat)
Police found her licking their
brains off the blade... They
locked her up in a psycho ward and
all she said were two words: 'Pet
Sematary. Pet Sematary.'
Clyde stares at the wide-eyed kids. He grins, takes a swig of
beer, and moves in for the kicker.
CLYDE
Oh yeah! Almost forgot! Here's
the best part. Two nights ago she
escapes. Word is, she was heading
for Maine. Man I hope she doesn't
show up out here.
(feigning concern)
Shit, we wouldn't even notice her,
not if she's wearing a costume.
She could be one of us...
Clyde casts a suspicious eye on the group. The kids uneasily look
at each other, making sure they know who's behind each and every
costume.
Suddenly Clyde drops his jaw in exaggerated horror.
CLYDE
Oh my Goddd!!!
Clyde lifts a trembling finger, pointing beyond the group of
spellbound listeners.
CLYDE
It's... It's...
The kids are afraid to turn around, assuming Clyde's rigged up
some unspeakable terror...
And for an instant, a look of real horror washes over Clyde's
face...
A FIGURE
Is coming up the path beneath the archway, rising out of the
swirling mist. A frightening silhouette, backlit by the moon.
But then Clyde realizes who it is.
CLYDE
Shit! It's Drew's Dad. It's
fuckin' Gus!
Drew and the others quickly turn around, realizing it's not part
of the punch-line scare.
89
OMITTED
THRU
91
OMITTED
PET SEMATARY - NIGHT
The kids quickly scramble for hiding places in the bordering
brush, dropping their beer cans as fast as they can.
As Drew leaps to his feet, he upsets the fire, knocking one of the
logs. A FLAMING EMBER rolls to the base of one of the brittle old
crosses.
Drew and Geoff run for it.
PATH, ARCHWAY - NIGHT
Gus moves quickly up the meandering path, sending the blinding
beam of his flashlight over the graves.
GUS
You boys better not be drinking!
PET SEMATARY - NIGHT
Through the thick woods, Drew is flanked by Geoff and Clyde.
DREW
Oh man, he's gonna kick my ass...
Drew starts to take off. Clyde trips him on his first stride. Drew
hits the dirt.
CLYDE
Thanks for fucking up our
Halloween, dumbshit!
Clyde recedes into the woods as Gus approaches the campfire. He
scans the area with his flashlight, illuminating the various beer
cans.
GUS
Drew, you get your ass out here!
Front and center!
Geoff pulls Drew to his feet.
Gus passes the flashlight over the woods. Kids duck away,
retreating from their hiding places...
The flashlight sweeps toward Drew.
Drew freezes, spotlighted by Gus' beam. A burst of LIGHTNING
floods Drew's horrified face.
GUS
Get out here, Joker.
Geoff remains frozen in the woods nearby, out of Gus' light.
Behind Gus, the wooden cross is completely on fire now.
GUS
You out here making a fool of me?
Drew shakes his head in instant denial.
GUS
I'm warning you, buddy! You don't
play by the rules, I'm gonna
shadow your ass for eternity!
Drew makes a break from his spot in the woods. He weaves through
the markers, arcing around the outer perimeter to avoid Gus...
...but Gus is quicker. He zigzags through the crosses and
headstones to intercept Drew.
Gus gets a handful of Drew's collar and yanks him in.
GUS
You little shit!
Gus draws his free arm back and smacks Drew across the face. Drew
goes down.
GEOFF
is looking on from the woods, horrified. Torn...
DREW
cowers on the ground, trying to scramble away.
Geoff bolts out into the firelight, staring defiantly at Gus in
silent accusation.
Gus is beyond furious. LIGHTNING flashes again.
GUS
You get out of here, Geoff
Matthews! This is between me and
my boy!
Geoff doesn't move. Gus starts to advance forward...
...but the GROWL emanating from the woods gives him pause.
Everyone turns...
A RUSTLING is heard in the bushes, and Zowie emerges into the
building firelight, flashing his fangs at Gus. His eyes GLOW RED.
Gus freezes, studying Zowie.
Zowie inches forward, poised for the attack.
GUS
Call off your dog, Drew.
Drew shifts his eyes from Zowie to Gus, too terrified to heed such
a command.
Zowie brushes past Drew and Geoff, moving in on Gus.
Gus' eyes shift to burning cross at his side. With a swift boot,
he kicks over the cross and presses it into his grip.
Swinging the cross like a primitive weapon, Gus connects with the
side of Zowie's head.
Zowie spins a full circle from the impact. But he lands on all
fours. Unphased. Taking the next step toward Gus. There's
something clearly not of this world in Zowie's vicious stare.
GUS
(terrified)
Drew, call him off!
All Drew can manage is a faint appeal.
DREW
Zowie...
Zowie goes for Gus, launching into the air...
GUS
DREW!
...and sinking his glistening fangs into Gus' neck.
AN ERUPTION OF BLOOD showers the closest headstone.
Gus comes helplessly tumbling down with the weight of the dog. His
SCREAMS are suddenly cut short as Zowie rips out his throat. His
arms flail weakly at his sides, then grow still.
Drew and Geoff stare at the scene, wide-eyed with shock.
Zowie looks up from Gus' neck with dripping, red fangs. For a
moment, his eyes settle on Drew. Then Zowie bolts off,
disappearing into the night.
DREW
Oh, God. Oh, God...
Drew's eyes shift to Geoff, whose face is flushed with sickened
fear.
GEOFF
(a whisper)
Is he dead?
In dazed shock, Drew moves in for a closer look at the body.
Gus' eyes are wide open. Blood is still pumping in rhythm from his
jugular with each weakening beat of his heart. It's a gruesome
image against the roaring fire.
Drew kneels at Gus' side. He wants to touch him. To shake him
awake, but with every attempt, he draws his hand back.
GEOFF
Is he breathing? Can you hear him
breathing?
Drew leans forward, turning his ear toward Gus' gaping mouth. And
as he inches closer...
GUS' FINGERS TWITCH
His hand jerks up and closes around Drew's neck. Gus stares up at
him with his crazed menace.
Drew SCREAMS. His fingers claw at Gus' hand, desperate to pry it
loose...
...but then, Gus' hand relaxes as his last, dying ounce of
strength fades away.
Drew shrinks back, crouching over the lifeless body as the blazing
firelight dances over it. He turns his tear-filled gaze to Geoff.
DREW
Oh man, Geoff... we killed him...
we killed him...
(beat)
What're we gonna do?
Geoff draws closer and looks down into the dead man's face.
GEOFF
We could bring him back.
Drew's eyes widen at the suggestion.
And now, GAZING DOWN on Gus' body, and on the boys, WE PULL UP
INTO A SLOW SPIRAL...
We move ever higher, until we are LOOKING DOWN UPON THE ENTIRE PET
SEMATARY. At the SOUND of a shovel cutting into rocky soil, we...
CUT TO:
95
OMITTED
MICMAC BURIAL GROUND - NIGHT
Three quick shots:
A SHOVEL sinking into the earth.
GUS falling head down into the grave, landing with a heavy THUD.
SOIL covering Gus' lifeless face.
DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Amanda is pacing back and forth on the porch, checking her watch
every few steps. She sighs with relief as...
Drew appears from the darkness of the woods.
Drew dismounts his bike and carries it up the front porch steps,
strangely silent. His clothes and face are caked with dirt.
AMANDA
Jesus, Drew, do you know what time
it is? Did Gus ever find you?
Drew moves on past her into the house.
AMANDA
(calling after him)
Drew? Drew, what happened?
DREW
(trying not to lose
it)
Nothing happened, Mom. We just
ditched Gus, that's all...
Drew pauses and stares out into the unknown darkness of the night.
DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT
MOVING IN ON the house, WE SINGLE OUT a rain-obscured window on
the ground floor, the window to Drew's bedroom.
ROAD - DAY
Geoff is riding along the highway, his backpack full of school
books. Drew is waiting on the shoulder ahead. When Geoff
approaches, Drew hops on his bike, getting up to speed.
WITH THE BOYS - RIDING
Geoff keeps glancing at Drew, waiting for him to say something.
Drew maintains his enigmatic expression.
GEOFF
Well?
Drew nods. Geoff's eyes widen in disbelief.
DREW
Picture this... Gus comes down to
breakfast and he doesn't say a
word. He even kind of smiles,
like he forgot he hates me. And
then you know what he does? He
serves me an extra helping of
pancakes...
(beat)
I asked him if I was still
grounded... "no." I asked him if
you could spend the night, and he
nods. It's like we're a family.
A real family.
The words have their own meaning for Geoff, who stares to the road
ahead in deep thought.
DREW
It's weird...
GEOFF
What do you mean?
DREW
It's like he's not Gus anymore.
He's different. You know, like
Zowie...
They share a chuckle that ends in silent uneasiness.
SCHOOL, STREET - DAY
Clyde, Stevie, and Brad are loitering near the front bike racks.
Clyde's smoking away.
As Geoff and Drew come out of the school, the trio moves to
intercept them.
CLYDE
Hey!
Just then, Chase's van pulls at the curb, interrupting whatever
trouble was about to happen.
Clyde looks from the van to Geoff, and falls back.
DREW
Saved by the bell...
Chase hurriedly rolls down the passenger window as Geoff and Drew
approach.
GEOFF
Can I sleep over at Drew's
tonight?
Chase is preoccupied with other concerns.
CHASE
Yeah... that's fine...
(beat)
Listen, Drew, I got the tests back
on Zowie. He's not well. Don't
ask me how, but he got out this
afternoon...
Geoff and Drew exchange concerned looks.
CHASE
If he finds his way home, call me,
no matter what the hour, okay? And
don't try to approach him.
Whatever he's got might be
infectious. Understand?
The boys nod their heads.
Chase masks his anxiety with a weary smile. With a wave, he speeds
up, leaving the boys.
YOLANDER'S CABIN - DAY
A remote, rustic dwelling nestled into the desolate backwoods.
DREW'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Gus reaches into the cage and grabs a rabbit by the ears. He
casually snaps the neck. Laying the limp carcass on a stump
cutting board, he quickly skins it.
Hanging above the cages, there is now a line of furry pelts. Half
a dozen.
Drew and Geoff are on the porch, looking on.
DREW
I guess we're having rabbit for
dinner.
Gus hangs the freshly skinned fur to dry and violently snatches
another hare from the cage.
COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT
A moonlit horizon. Unmoving. Silent. The kind of silence that
pulls at the darkest recesses of imagination.
And now, A LONE FIGURE appears on the horizon. It's Zowie, moving
at a deliberate pace.
ATOP A KNOLL
Zowie takes pause. The TINKLING of his collar tags resumes as he
drops over the horizon line, cutting down the hill.
HOUSE - NIGHT
Zowie slides down the room and leaps to the ground below,
disappearing into the night.
HIGHWAY, COUNTRY BRIDGE - DAY
Geoff and Drew have parked their bikes beneath the bridge. They
sit on the bank of the creek below, watching the water run past.
Geoff is lost in thought.
GEOFF
Do you think everyone that came
back would be like Gus?
DREW
I don't know...
(thinking)
...maybe it depends on what you
were like before you...
GEOFF
(finishing)
Dies?
Drew nods. He tosses a stone into the creek, then looks up at the
sun and sighs.
DREW
I gotta go back and do my
chores...
GEOFF
Go later...
Drew shakes his head.
DREW
I can't. Gus'd kill me if I
showed up late.
The boys reluctantly rise and move to their bikes, walking them up
the steep grade to the highway.
DREW
See you at school Monday?
Geoff nods. He looks at Drew. The boy is genuinely frightened. But
there's nothing either of them can do. They're trapped in their
roles as kids.
Both boys mount their bikes. Drew turns...
DREW
You ever think about running away?
GEOFF
All the time.
Drew smiles at this. He waves to Geoff and pedals off.
DREW
(calling back)
See ya!
Geoff waves and heads off in the opposite direction.
WE STAY ON DREW -
As he moves down the road. Up ahead, we hear the approaching WHINE
of a motorcycle...
CLYDE
rips by on an old junkyard fixer-up MOTORCYCLE, and he's heading
in Geoff's direction.
Seeing him, Drew brakes and pulls his bike into a U-turn, pumping
furiously to catch up with Geoff.
ON GEOFF -
Now Geoff hears the WHINE of Clyde's motorcycle. He glances
back...
Clyde's spotted him, REVVING the engine.
Geoff pedals like mad, but it's no use. Clyde is closing in on
him, grinning sadistically.
Clyde sweeps in next to him, calling out over the ENGINE.
CLYDE
Well look who's here!
Clyde veers right, forcing Geoff towards the shoulder of the
road...
131
OMITTED
132
OMITTED
COUNTRYSIDE - DAY
The ground ahead drops toward a ravine. Geoff has nowhere to go
but down the slope. Clyde is right there beside him...
Laughing, Clyde reaches over and grabs ahold of Geoff's handlebar.
He jerks it sideways...
CLYDE
Oops!
Geoff's front wheel turns perpendicular. The bike pitches forward,
THROWING Geoff into the dirt ahead...
Clyde broadies his bike to a stop. With the engine idling, he hops
off.
Before Geoff can get to his feet, Clyde has picked up Geoff's bike
and planted it upside down in the dirt.
CLYDE
Guess your Dad's not here to save
you now, is he?
Clyde gets a handful of Geoff's collar and drags him over toward
the bike. With his free hand, Clyde cranks the pedal.
The back wheel spins. Faster and faster.
CLYDE
You ever seen a tire take off a
nose?
Through the blur of the spokes, WE SEE Geoff, eyes widening
fearfully.
CLYDE
Neither have I.
Clyde forces Geoff's face toward the spinning tread.
CLYDE
Might even kill ya. Wheel might
chew right into your brains. You
could visit your mom.
Geoff tries to get a hold on the frame of the bike for leverage,
but his arms don't reach beyond the spinning wheel.
Clyde is full of deranged glee, fueled by Geoff's fear.
But now, A HAND grabs the wool scarf streaming from the back of
Clyde's neck and yanks him off of Geoff.
Clyde reels, finding...
GUS standing there behind him. He looks bad. Real bad. His
bandages are unwound and his ruined neck is still seeping. His
face is unearthly pale. He's deteriorated considerably since
yesterday.
CLYDE
(startled)
Jesus Christ, Gus!
Gus levels a threatening gaze at Geoff.
GUS
Go home.
But Geoff remains frozen. Gus fixes him with a stare that could
turn flesh to stone.
GUS
I said... GO HOME!!
Geoff snaps out of it and flips his bike over. He gets a running
start, making a beeline for the highway without ever looking back.
ON THE KNOLL NEARBY
Drew stops short of the ravine, watching from afar as Gus steps
toward Clyde.
BELOW -
Clyde throws up his hands. He's frightened, but he tries to muster
up a cocky front.
CLYDE
Come on, Gus, I was just fucking
with him...
(nervous laughter)
What're you gonna do? Give me a
ticket? I mean, shit, Gus...
Clyde grows increasingly wary of Gus' evil stare. Gus steps
closer.
CLYDE
You can't lay a finger on me...
Wrong. Gus lashes out, backhanding Clyde across the face.
Clyde falls to the ground, flat on his back, with his nose gushing
blood. Terrified.
Gus turns around and lifts the idling motorcycle. With one hand
under the back of the seat, and the other working the accelerator
handlebar, Gus advances toward Clyde.
Gus kicks the bike into gear and REVS the accelerator.
THE REAR WHEEL SPINS. On the pavement it would be moving forty
miles an hour.
Clyde can't believe his eyes. Pleading.
CLYDE
Gus... what are you doing?
GUS
I'm just fucking with you...
Gus plants his foot against Clyde's chest, pinning him, and lowers
the spinning rear wheel TOWARD CLYDE'S NECK. The wheel WHINES like
a circular saw.
Gus lowers the wheel. Then jerks it away, flashing a sadistic
smile.
Just when Clyde thinks Gus is backing off, the wheel comes down
again...
CLYDE
(wailing)
Stop it, man! Stop it!!!
Gus gets into the rhythm as he lowers and retracts the spinning
wheel at the terrified bully.
But this time, as the wheel comes down...
CLYDE'S WOOL SCARF, defying gravity, gets swept up, swallowed into
the GEARS.
And along with the scarf, here comes Clyde's SCREAMING face. We
can only imagine the gruesome instant that follows.
BLOOD sprays up over Gus' arms and chest. And then we hear the
sound of CRUNCHING BONES jamming the motorcycle's gears.
GUS
(dead-pan)
Whoops.
He bares his teeth in a death's head grin.
ON THE KNOLL
Drew has witnessed the killing. He's mortified.
BELOW -
Gus tosses the bloody motorcycle aside, slowly raising his eyes up
to where Drew stands. His eyes meet Drew's.
Drew hastily jerks his bike around and takes off.
Gus starts after him on foot.
DREW'S HOUSE - DAY
Drew slides down the slant of the roof. He hits the lattice and
takes it to the ground with him.
Untangling himself, he gets to his feet...
...and here comes Amanda, ARRIVING HOME.
Drew runs for her car, waving his hands, throwing himself into her
path so she'll go no further. She SLAMS on the brakes.
Drew pulls open the passenger door and dives inside...
DREW
Gus killed Clyde, Mom! He's
trying to kill me!
Just then, the BACK DOOR flies open. Gus steps out.
GUS
Drew, buddy! Daddy's not done
yet!
Amanda spots the hammer hanging from his grip. Gus cracks a sick
smile and FLINGS THE HAMMER at the car...
CRACK! The hammer bounces off the windshield, causing it to
spiderweb.
DREW
Go Mom! Go!!!
That's all the convincing Amanda needs. She puts the car into
reverse and stomps on the gas...
HIGHWAY - DAY
Approaching from the road ahead is a POTATO TRUCK.
HIGHWAY - DAY
THE POTATO TRUCK COLLIDES WITH AMANDA'S CAR. HEAD ON.
Thousands of potatoes explode from the rear of the truck,
obscuring our view.
WE HEAR THE HORRIFYING SOUNDS OF CRUNCHING METAL. CRUNCHING BONES.
AND SILENCED CRIES.
Gus' vehicle speeds past. WE HOLD on the mess of twisted steel.
Clearly there are no survivors.
PET SEMATARY - NIGHT
The lullaby drifts from beyond the deadfall. The fog rolls inward,
towards the distant burial ground. As Geoff moves towards the
deadfall, the fog converges around him.
157
OMITTED
THE BOG - NIGHT
The lure of Renee's lullaby pulls Geoff deeper into the woods. We
hear the unearthly ANIMAL HOWL once more.
159
OMITTED
THRU
167
OMITTED
PLEASANTVILLE CEMETERY - NIGHT
Chase's van pulls to a stop behind a maintenance vehicle.
Chase is greeted by the limping CARETAKER, who quickly leads him
off across the rolling hillside.
CARETAKER
...sorry to disturb you, Doctor
Matthews, but I thought you'd want
to come have a look for yourself.
It's the damndest thing...
AT RENEE'S GRAVE -
Chase stops cold, gazing at the ground before him in disbelief...
The grave is a gaping cavity. The casket has been unearthed.
Renee's body is missing.
CHASE
Jesus...
(uncomprehending)
Gus did this?!
CARETAKER
(nodding)
He stuck around after the funeral.
Told me he had an order to exhume
your wife. I didn't think much of
it until I saw him drag the body
out of the coffin...
(shakes his head)
He put your wife in his truck and
drove off right through Amanda and
Drew's headstones...
The caretaker points across the hillside...
TIRE TRACKS cut through the manicured grass, cutting a path of
destruction right through the field of headstones and on through
the fence.
CARETAKER
I swear, nothing this weird has
happened since Louis Creed dug up
his boy...
(beat)
You want me to notify the
authorities?
Chase doesn't answer, he just storms past the caretaker.
MICMAC BURIAL GROUND
Geoff climbs the stone steps, reaching the flattop meas. He stops
short, looking over the clearing...
GUS
is standing in the center of the burial ground. He's HUMMING,
mimicking Renee's feminine tone. Now he stops and slowly turns,
regarding Geoff with dead eyes. He's holding a pickaxe and shovel
at his side.
Gus looks to the ground at his side. Geoff follows his gaze...
A VISION OF RENEE'S GRAVE APPEARS -
Headstone. Manicured grass. Thriving flowers. As if it had been
uprooted from her resting place at Pleasantville and set down
right in the middle of the Micmac ground.
And now, the vision of Renee's grave fades away. In its place is a
bundle of white: RENEE'S SHROUDED BODY.
Gus raises the pickaxe, offering it to Geoff.
GUS
You bury your own, Geoff.
Geoff slowly nods and approaches, seduced beyond reason.
169
OMITTED
THRU
177
OMITTED
GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT
Chase's headlights sweep across the front of the dark house.
Pulling to a stop, Chase opens the van's door...
ZOWIE
LEAPS out of the darkness, sinking his teeth into Chase's
shoulder.
Chase is thrown back over the car seat, grappling with the
nightmare dog as it tears into him again and again...
Chase SCREAMS, reaching back for the gun. He grabs hold of it and
swings it around... FIRES...
Zowie is BLOWN backwards, clear out of the car, spraying CHASE
with BLOOD...
Zowie lands outside on his feet, looking stunned. His chest is a
ruined mess. Zowie WHIMPERS and drags himself weakly towards the
front porch.
Chase stumbles out of the van, clutching the gun. He's bleeding
profusely.
179
OMITTED
PORCH - NIGHT
An old saw is laying in a pile of sawdust next to a square hole
that's been cut in the base of the front door.
Chase gives it a look as he tries the door. It's unlocked. Chase
enters, bringing with him an illuminating swath from his
headlights.
GUS' HOUSE - NIGHT
Chase stumbles from the house. It's a wonder he's even conscious.
He swings open the van door and throws himself inside, sinking the
key into the ignition.
VETERINARY OFFICE - DAY
We PULL OUT from a sign on the door that says "CLOSED".
Chase is just now locking up the door. He's bandaged up, looking a
little worse for the wear, but happy to be alive. He turns,
grinning...
GEOFF
stands near the van, holding Tiger in his arms.
GEOFF
All set?
CHASE
All set.
Chase joins Geoff at the van and together they climb inside. Chase
starts the engine, pulling away from the office.
WE STAY ON THE VAN -
As it moves off down the street, passing the familiar landmarks of
sleepy Ludlow.
RISING UP -
We follow the van as it sweeps out of town. Ludlow looks picture-
perfect from our bird's eye vantage point. Charming and quiet.
CHASE (V.O.)
So where're we going?
GEOFF
Anywhere but here.
We continue rising up into the brilliant blue sky, losing the van
amidst the rolling Maine countryside and we
DISSOLVE TO:
MICMAC FOREST - DAY
RUSHING over the woods, just above the tree tops. It's an ocean of
swaying green beneath us. A forest as ancient and mysterious as
anything on the Earth.
AND SUDDENLY -
The endless trees fall out from under us. We find ourselves above
the flattop mesa of the Micmac burial ground, swooping downward...
The ground surges towards us. We see Renee's OPEN GRAVE.
The quality of light is different now. We hear the wail of the
LONESOME WIND, and perhaps, the WHISPER of something altogether
alien.
And on the unsettling note, we...
FADE TO BLACK.
THE END
Pet Sematary II
Writers : Richard OuttenDavid S. Goyer
Genres : Horror
User Comments
Back to IMSDb