The world turns below us, vast and slow.
A RUMBLE. A shadow sweeps over the land. We move with the
shadow. We cast the shadow.
Landscapes slide by. Reduced by altitude to abstractions:
river deltas, forests and flood plains. A raw natural world.
No trace of civilization.
The shadow glides over mountains and glaciers. Across an
ocean and a pale beach. Over lowland plain at the foot of a
VOLCANIC MOUNTAIN it stops.
THREE FIGURES walk out of the shadow.
They are men - and yet not men. Their skin is snow-white.
Their features heavy and classical - as if Rodin's Thinker
had risen from his seat. Their smooth heads are earless and
hairless. Their glittering eyes entirely black.
Against the stark land their height is impossible to judge.
They are ENGINEERS.
Two of them are cloaked in dark robes of strange design.
The third is naked.
One of the cloaked Engineers opens a featureless black box:
inside lies a cake of dark, sticky material.
The naked one lifts the dark cake with ceremonial slowness.
It hums and buzzes. Foams into iridescent spheres. He raises
the seething cake to his mouth like the sacrament.
BLACK SCARABS boil out of the dark material. Swarm over his
lips. Glittering insects that chitter and bite.
Under the swarm his lips melt away. A horrific vision of
teeth, black blood, dissolving bone. They are devouring him.
FLASH ON:
A fevered glimpse of the microscopic: cells rupture and
bleed. Protein chains unfold. A DNA spiral unravels.
2.
The scarabs fill their bellies with genetic material.
THE ENGINEER
...spreads his arms. Stands cruciform, nearly headless.
The scarabs swarm his shoulders, his chest. When they reach
his hips, he collapses sideways, toppling majestically like a
felled tree. Engulfed.
The two cloaked Engineers watch impassively.
Behind them, a vast black SHIP hangs in the sky.
As if blown by a great gust of wind, the scarabs disperse in
their millions in all directions. Living DNA on the wing.
Where the sacrificial victim fell, nothing remains.
A pristine wilderness. The VOLCANIC MOUNTAIN in the distance.
A PRIMITIVE WOMAN stands on a height, staring in amazement:
far off a great dark ship hovers over the plain.
A black scarab lands on the back of her neck. Bites deep.
Injecting its cargo of DNA into her blood.
FLASH ON:
A microscopic invasion. Cells pierced and infused. DNA
strands twining and mating.
CLOSE ON THE WOMAN
Pupils dilating with shock, breath hissing into her lungs.
She slaps the back of her neck. Looks at her hand. The scarab
lies in her palm.
As she watches, it crumbles to dust and blows away.
FADE TO BLACK.
ON BLACK
Drifting motes of light against the dark: a starscape.
3.
An EXCAVATOR floats into view: a sturdy vehicle equipped with
robotic arms. Bright floodlights beat at the darkness. Inside
the cockpit - a bubble of glass - sits a BEAUTIFUL WOMAN.
This is DR. JOCELYN WATTS, 32, a precocious scholar of many
disciplines. A scientist accustomed to field work.
The cockpit is sweltering: she wears shorts, boots, a T-shirt
- and still her arms and legs gleam with sweat.
Watts works the controls. The excavator descends toward a
rocky surface. Silt billows up as the excavator approaches:
we're not in space at all, but deep underwater.
The excavator's thrusters are cowled propellers. The "stars"
are plankton shining in the floodlights.
Watts carves into the cliff with the excavator's digger arm.
Silt and boulders fall into the yawning trench below. She
brings a water cannon to bear: uses its jet to blast away
loose silt and stones.
The cliff face collapses: a muddy landslide into the deeps.
Watts backs away from the collapse, thrusters whirring to
keep her out of the turbulence. A cloud of silt clears.
In her floodlight beams, the OBELISK stands revealed - its
outlines worn by the ages. Easily thirty feet tall.
Watts stares at the obelisk, stunned. Her voice is husky:
WATTS
Martin. Here.
4.
A second excavator glides out of the dark.
At the controls: PROFESSOR MARTIN HOLLOWAY, 48, visionary
genius and archaeologist. Dark-haired and lean, with the
rangy build of a frontiersman. He's dressed in work trousers
and a T-shirt. Stubbly chin.
He plays his floodlights over the obelisk.
HOLLOWAY
Look at that.
Holloway pilots his excavator expertly up to Watts's. Mates
the two vehicles at their aft hatchways.
A research vessel at anchor on a turquoise sea. Bright sun.
In the distance, a coastline dotted with villas. The horizon
is dominated by the VOLCANIC PEAK - the same peak we saw in
the distance in the prologue.
Aboard the research vessel, cranes lift Watts and Holloway's
excavators out of the sea and onto the deck.
A gleaming space station like a five-spoked wheel rotates
grandly against the Pacific Ocean a thousand miles below.
Black letters on the white metal read: WEYLAND'S WHEEL.
A round shuttlecraft approaches the station.
The shuttle docks with the Wheel's hub - a perfect fit.
The elevator descends along the spoke to the rim.
A black void shot with stars, far from any sun.
A sturdy prospecting ship forges through space, travel-worn
but built to last. It carries the Weyland Industries logo.
The name painted on its hull is MAGELLAN.
14.
The Magellan arrives at the periphery of the system. A
distant star like Earth's Sun, surrounded by orbiting
planets: mere sparks at this distance.
The Magellan opens its eyes: two immense telescopes emerge
from the ship. Irises open to expose huge lenses.
Antennae deploy: unfurling like wings, gleaming and vast.
Sifting vacuum for any whisper of information.
Twin telescopes spin and zoom. Antennae flex and focus.
TELESCOPE POV
The planet nearest the sun rushes closer as the mighty
telescopes zoom in.
The Magellan retracts its vast antennae and telescopes.
The engines fire: the ship rockets toward the gas giant
Epsilon and its mysterious moon.
26.
PASSAGEWAY
Leaving the Bridge, Holloway and Watts find themselves
walking aft alongside DAVID.
HOLLOWAY
DAVID. Enjoy the show?
DAVID
I don't know that I "enjoy" things.
It was informative.
HOLLOWAY
It was, it was.
(TEASING)
You know, I've seen more convincing
humanoid robots.
Watts smiles, watching Holloway's sport. DAVID's speech never
varies from its agreeable tone.
DAVID
My design's not intended to convince.
Simulating humanity is a complex task
that diverts resources. My designers
dispensed with that burden to optimize
for intelligence.
WATTS
Why look like a man at all? Why not be
a box on wheels?
DAVID
Being shaped like you, I can use
spaces and equipment designed for you.
But I'm not so limited. I hear
frequencies you can't hear. I see
wavelengths of light invisible to you.
I move faster. Exert greater force.
The scientists look at DAVID in wonder.
WATTS
You see yourself as a superman.
DAVID
No.
He turns his unearthly eyes on them.
DAVID (CONT'D)
Not a man at all.
27.
SCIENTISTS' CABIN
Holloway and Watts lie on their bed in their clothes - her
head on his chest.
WATTS
What if they're really there?
(off his confusion)
The Engineers. They could be there.
Waiting for us. What then?
He laughs.
HOLLOWAY
Then all my dreams come true.
The Magellan has arrived.
LV-426 is a gray moon shrouded in clouds. Behind it looms its
father planet Epsilon, a lurid gas giant banded in red and
gold, half swallowed in darkness.
The Magellan dives into a forced orbit around LV-426: rockets
firing continually, nose pointed down. Telescopes, sensors
and antennae sprout once more from its hull.
Radar emitters extend from their housings like cannons. A
THUMP of power as they hammer out a blast of energy.
The Magellan sweeps on around the gray moon, radar emitters
humming, antennae and telescopes open wide. The gas giant
Epsilon fills the sky behind LV-426.
As it circles, the Magellan launches SATELLITES. Metal motes
hurled into polar orbits around the Moon.
The prospecting ship descends through buffeting grey clouds.
Telescopes and antennae stowed away. Hull streaming vapor as
it cuts atmosphere.
Lightning flashes and booms around the descending ship.
The Magellan thunders over valleys and craggy ridges of rock.
30.
A second oddly regular peak, even more decrepit than the
first, sits on the brink of a vast canyon. Landslides have
eaten at its edges.
The Magellan purrs over the landscape, dwarfed by the scale.
Drops between the canyon walls to circle the mount.
31.
From the central crater, four canals extend outward like
points of the compass. Some connect to smaller craters.
One canal peters out, flush with the desert floor.
The Magellan lands at the end of this canal - half a
kilometer from the central crater.
The expedition party emerges from the airlocks - riding CARGO
ROVERS, robotic vehicles just smart enough to carry their
owners around, or follow along behind them.
The rovers' beds are loaded with gear; the explorers ride on
running-board seats. All wear space suits.
Holloway drives the first rover with Watts beside him.
Stillwell, Kamarov, and Downs in back.
DAVID drives the second rover with Milburn, Fifield, Chance
and Ravel aboard.
WATTS
The air here will kill you, so keep an
eye on your supply and watch your
seals. Pathogen tests are clean.
33.
HOLLOWAY
Move slowly. Stay together. Don't
touch anything. Things may be more
fragile than they look - or more
dangerous. There might be technologies
operating here we don't understand.
The crew of the Magellan exchange uneasy looks. Still
uncertain what to think.
The trench grows deeper as they follow it toward the central
crater - the pyramidal peak framed ahead of them like a
monument on a triumphal avenue.
They cross a perpendicular canal. Glancing left and right,
they see smaller craters with central peaks of their own.
They pass through the shadow of a high promontory of stone
atop one bank of the canal.
We see - and they do not - that the far side of the
promontory has a Sphinx-like FACE of monumental size. So
eroded that its artificial nature is uncertain.
The crater floor is a vast enclosed plain. The pyramidal
mount looms in the center - colossal in scale.
The rovers enter the crater, trailing plumes of dust. They
circle the pyramid.
On the south face of the pyramid, an IRIS DOOR of many blades
stands, easily fifty feet high. Seemingly made of the same
basaltic stone as the pyramid itself. A huge construction.
The explorers are transfixed in awe. All skepticism banished.
HOLLOWAY
Tell me that's a natural formation.
(HE GRINS)
Undeniable proof of alien
civilization. You were here on this
day, thirty-one December, year of our
Lord 2172. History will remember your
names.
Watts stares at the iris. Its bottom-most blade is broken; it
lies in rubble at the foot of the door. A dark knife-like
aperture leads into the pyramid.
34.
WATTS
The door's open.
On foot, explorers press inside - Holloway and Watts in the
lead. Their flashlights cut into the gloom.
The robotic rovers follow them: their six-wheeled chassis
with independent suspension trundling over the rubble
barrier, sure-footed as goats.
One of the Magellan's satellites hurtles along, high above
the moon's atmosphere. It passes over the terminator line
between the night side and day side.
Through the clouds below, a lightning-laced storm front rolls
across LV-426 like a wave.
Holloway races their cargo rover away from the pyramid,
wheels kicking up dust.
Watts rides in back, securing a bulky payload under a tarp on
the cargo deck. Stillwell, Downs, and Kamarov clinging
miserably beside her. Watts looks back:
A massive storm front chases them. A tidal wave of dust shot
through with lightning. Gale-force winds tear at the ground.
Lightning lashes the pyramid and the crater wall.
Reaching the Magellan, they see the other rover already in
the airlock lift. DAVID, Ravel, and Chance aboard.
Holloway roars into the lift at speed, the rover skidding
almost into the opposite wall. Watts leaps down.
The storm wall catches up to them. Screaming winds rip
through the lift. Dust fills the air. Visibility plunges
toward zero.
WATTS
Help me unload!
46.
She pulls at the tarp. It tears halfway free - and fills with
wind, snapping taut with such violence that Watts is hurled
out into the storm.
IN THE GALE
Watts tumbles helplessly: a leaf in the wind. CRASHES into a
metal stanchion. Clings, the wind knocked out of her. Ears
ringing. Nothing but static in her headset.
IN THE LIFT
Holloway stares in shock at the place where Watts vanished.
HOLLOWAY
Jocelyn!
With inhuman reflexes DAVID reacts. Grabs a tether. Latches
it to his suit. Locks it to an anchor point on the wall.
Dives into the storm. A ballet nearly too fast to follow.
IN THE GALE
DAVID lets the wind take him. Skids across the ground,
controlling his trajectory. He hits the stanchion where Watts
is lodged with a CLANG as if he were made of iron.
Watts stares at him in mute astonishment.
He locks her suit to his. Activates the tether unit's winch.
It whirs, reeling them in through the hurricane.
IN THE LIFT
Holloway and the other crewmen haul Watts and DAVID back
inside. Holloway and Watts embrace fiercely as the lift rises
toward the safety of the ship.
The crewmen bundle the rover's tarp-wrapped cargo into a
sealed dumbwaiter that rises independently into the ship.
The storm batters the ship, bouncing it on its suspension.
SCIENTISTS' CABIN - NIGHT
Watts and Holloway lie in bed, exhausted. Arms around each
other. Watts stares into space.
WATTS
We found the gods. And they've been
murdered.
HOLLOWAY
You've pried too many arrowheads out
of old skulls to get squeamish now.
They've been dead what, eighteen
hundred years? Two thousand?
WATTS
What could kill them?
Holloway contemplates the question.
HOLLOWAY
Who knows?
(he laughs bitterly)
(MORE)
57.
HOLLOWAY (CONT'D)
But I guess we know why they never
came back to us. Something killed them
off - back around the time of Christ.
Maybe He was one of them! A great
teacher, sent from Heaven? Jesus. The
last Engineer.
WATTS
Martin, stop!
She slaps at him. Holloway laughs.
BRIDGE
Janek stands at the Bridge window, staring out into the
storm. Buffeting clouds and howling winds. The lighthouse
beams of the Magellan's beacons sweeping through the cloud.
He plays his squeeze box in the teeth of the storm.
JANEK
(SINGING)
You'll come a-waltzing, Matilda, with
me...
Behind him, DAVID appears on the Bridge. Steals across the
Bridge to a ladder. Descends into the compartment below...
NAVIGATION COMPUTER ROOM
DAVID activates the navigation computer terminal: light
bathes his face. His fingers fly over the keyboard, silently
and swiftly, with superhuman dexterity.
DAVID
(QUIETLY)
Activate. Administrative override.
Daylight filters through the clouds. The storm has passed.
The Magellan sits intact on its landing struts.
Janek and his crew unload Milburn's body from the rover.
JANEK
Put him in the number one ore hopper.
Get the scrubbers on in the airlock.
Sterilize everything.
MINUTES LATER
Stillwell uses a remote to lower an ore hopper from the belly
of the ship. A thick steel bin on heavy chains. He loads the
body bag into the hopper.
DAVID - bareheaded in the winds - walks Watts and Holloway
onto the airlock.
DAVID looks over his shoulder at the canal leading back to
the central crater. As the airlock lift begins to rise, he
steps backward out into the storm. Turns and runs through the
gale toward the pyramid.
Watts watches him go in astonishment.
68.
The windows of the Magellan shine in the distance. The
mottled ground-cover of lichens glows eerily in the dark.
A lone cargo rover speeds across the central crater and down
the canal leading to the ship.
Bare-headed inside the rover's cab, Watts drives onto the
cargo lift. Watches in relief as the lift doors close. The
lift cycles air as it rises.
Fissures race across the plain beside the pyramid.
The soil and ground cover tears apart as a huge aperture
opens: a seven-bladed iris, its segments shedding the dust
and detritus of centuries.
A huge circular space yawns as the iris opens. The Juggernaut
is revealed in its underground hangar. A staggering sight.
Powerful landing lights inside the hangar illuminate with a
BOOM of closing circuits. The mighty ship suddenly
silhouetted from below.
The war party debarks in vacuum suits: Watts, Vickers,
Glasse, Stillwell. Shepherd and Ray.
All carry submachine guns - Vickers awkwardly.
They head down the trench on rovers.
The vast alien ship broods, its hangar now open to the gray
sky overhead. In Watts's enhanced vision, the ship is
cocooned with complex energy fields.
The war party abandons its rover at the foot of the ramp and
moves inside, weapons ready.
WATTS
If DAVID comes at us, shoot. You won't
believe how fast he is.
The floor of the underground hangar begins to rise. The
landing lights brighten, shining like a beacon into the sky.
107.
Watts steers the rover recklessly, hands locked on the
controls. Rifle slung over her shoulder.
The prospecting ship raises its lifts and anchors. Lifts off
on landing rockets, retracting its landing struts.
The Magellan barrels toward the Juggernaut, skimming the
ground, as the storm wall sweeps closer.
The Juggernaut leaps into the sky.
The Magellan roars through the cyclone of dust in its wake.
Barely avoids the pyramid. Rakes around in a screaming turn
and climbs in pursuit, engines howling.
The Juggernaut emerges from the stormclouds into the clear
upper air - but loses momentum. Staggers through the upper
atmosphere, control lost.
The Magellan hurtles out of the storm.
RAMS THE JUGGERNAUT.
A colossal impact. The Juggernaut tumbles from the sky like a
stone - intact but crippled.
The MAGELLAN BREAKS APART -
The ship's modules scatter. Some whole, others broken. They
fall back into the storm. The Command Module - including the
Bridge - falls intact.
The engine sections rocket away across the chaotic sky.
Watts's pod - a steel coffin - shoots away on jets through
the gale.
112.
The command module plunges through the storm, tumbling.
SMASHES AGAINST THE GROUND in ruin.
The engine pods hurtle to the ground and go nuclear, sending
walls of fire twisting through the hurricane.
The shockwaves tumble Watts's escape pod through the air.
The pod lands, cushioned by a drag chute and retro rockets.
Watts pops the pod open, rising painfully to her feet in the
storm. She surveys the destruction in disbelief.
A deep RUMBLE makes her turn.
The JUGGERNAUT ROLLS TOWARD HER - on edge -
A crushing wheel of death, big as a mountain.
She runs. Like a child in a nightmare.
The Juggernaut bears down on her.
She turns aside, trying to get out of its course. Even at a
dead sprint she barely seems to move, it's so big...
The Juggernaut wobbles toward her. Slowing.
Exhausted, Watts collapses, gasping. The Juggernaut rolls to
the earth, settling like a hoop right around her, Watts in
the center.
The winds carry the dust clouds away.
Watts passes out, dropping her head to the Earth.
LATER
Watts is awakened by a beeping alarm. She looks at her wrist.
Her suit flashes an oxygen warning: 20 MINUTES REMAINING.
She looks up.
The Juggernaut's doors are wide open in front of her.
The ULTRAMORPH ALIEN emerges from the Juggernaut. As large as
a man already.
It sees her.
113.
With a sob of terror she pulls herself to her feet and runs.
Watts flees through the storm, across the burning debris
field. A wilderness of lightning, fire, and twisted metal. A
thunderstorm with dust instead of rain.
She looks back through the darkness.
In a strobe-light flicker of lightning, she sees a gray demon
approaching through the wreckage.
She scrambles through a section of ductwork...under a hull
fragment...running and clambering...
The Alien hunts her, cat-and-mouse, among the fragments of
the Magellan: corridors that go nowhere, shattered
compartments. Jetsam.
Her eyes sweep frantically through the stormy night:
searching for a weapon. A hiding place. An answer.
She stumbles into the remains of the Magellan's laboratory.
A hypersleep freezer lies on the barren ground. Watts climbs
inside. Pulls the lid shut.
The Alien passes by, inches away. She watches it through the
plexiglass, holding her breath.
The Alien roots in the wreckage. Finds the rotting Engineer's
head among the shards of its vat. It begins to feed on the
head - GROWING as she watches.
Her suit's oxygen alarm goes off again. 15 MINUTES REMAINING.
The beeping draws the Alien away from its dead meat.
Watts is paralyzed.
The Alien noses closer. Sniffs at the plexiglass case. With
sudden, horrific violence, it lashes out. Sends the freezer
flying. Watts tumbles out. Lurches to her feet and runs.
The Alien follows. Ravening. She leads it a twisting chase
through fragments of burning metal.
Watts trips and falls hard. Picking herself up, she sees
she's tripped over a HULL SAW - the same diamond-bladed tool
DAVID used to dismantle the terraforming engine.
She seizes the saw - straining to manage its weight. Hides in
the hollow of a massive girder.
114.
The Alien passes by. Scenting the air. She freezes. Her arms
trembling with the weight of the saw. Waiting for it to pass.
Almost it leaves. But a tiny rattle of metal from the
quivering saw brings it back.
Out of options, Watts powers up the saw. The blade whines up
to speed. They lunge at one another in the same moment.
The diamond blade shears off one of the Alien's claws.
The monster screams and recoils.
Its lashing tail sends Watts sprawling. She loses the saw.
The Alien comes after her, slinking low to the ground,
injured arm tucked to its chest. All vengeful fury.
Watts scrambles for the saw. The Alien leaps for her. She
rolls aside - and like a scorpion the Alien impales her thigh
with its spear-tipped tail. Nails her to the ground.
Watts screams in agony. Reaches for the saw, still buzzing on
the ground. Its grip tantalizing inches from her fingertips.
The Alien stoops over her, slavering face inches from her
faceplate. Its hideous jaws open.
With all her strength, Watts pulls against the spike in her
leg. Drags the point of the spear through the dirt.
Excruciating pain. She snarls through her teeth.
The Alien strikes - just as Watts GRABS the saw.
She meets the Alien's head with the buzzing blade.
IMPALES THE ALIEN'S SKULL.
A gout of green acid onto Watts's helmet.
The Alien falls aside, thrashing its death-throes, the saw
still growling.
Watts sees ACID COMING THROUGH HER HELMET - fast.
With frantic haste she unlatches her helmet. Wrenches it off
as it crumples and melts.
She stands bare-headed in the toxic air. Desperate, she looks
around with tearing eyes.
In the distance she sees an intact module of the Magellan.
She runs for it. Slaps the door switch. Incredibly, it opens.
115.
The storm has passed. The fragments of the Magellan no longer
burn. The gray world of LV-426 restored.
The wreck of the Juggernaut looms in the misty distance.
Watts walks through the wreckage in a military space suit.
Rifle on her shoulder. Pistol on her hip.
She pulls a cargo dolly loaded with salvage.
Watts arrives at the Vickers module. The ultramorph Alien's
head has been fixed like a grisly trophy above the door.
The massive central pyramid rises in the midst of the
Engineer complex.
With a BOOM, a bright beam of light shines forth from its
peak, punching straight up through the clouds like a laser.
VARIOUS PYRAMIDS - AROUND LV-426
Other beams of light erupt from other pyramids. Scorching the
sky with their brightness.
The barren moon hangs in space, its father planet an angry
red god in the background.
Two dozen beams of light rise from the moon, visible even
from space. A beacon. A signal.
A beginning.
FADE OUT.
THE END.
Prometheus
Writers : Jon Spaihts
Genres : AdventureMysterySci-Fi
User Comments
Back to IMSDb