Above Midtown section of the city. It is early afternoon, a
hot mid-summer day. The city is sun-sunblanched white and
its drifted-up noises are muted in blanched their own echoes.
We fly low, heading in a downtown direction, passing over
traffic-clogged streets, parking lots, white business
buildings, neatly patterned residential districts. As we
approach downtown section, the character of the city begins
to change. It is darker and shabby with age and industry. We
see railroad tracks, smokestacks, wholesale fruit-and-
vegetable markets, old municipal buildings, empty lots.
vegetable The very geography seems to give us a climate of
nefariousness, of back-doorness, dark and shadowy. And secret.
We fly lower and faster now, as if seeking out a specific
location. A skinny, high old hotel comes into view. On its
exposed brick side great painted letters advertise "Transients-
Low Weekly Rates-Radio in Every Room." We pause long enough
to establish the shoddy character of this hotel. Its open,
curtainless windows, its silent resigned look so
characteristic of such hole-and-corner hotels. We move forward
with purposefulness and-toward a certain window. The sash is
raised as high as it can go, but the shade is pulled down to
three or four inches of the inside sill, as if the occupants
of the room within wanted privacy but needed air. We are
close now, so that only the lower half of the window frame
is in shot. No sounds come from within the room.
Suddenly, we tip downward, go to the narrow space between
shade and sill, peep into the room.
A young woman is stretched out on the mussed bed. She wears
a full slip, stockings, no shoes. She lies in and attitude
of physical relaxation, but her face, seen in the dimness of
the room, betrays a certain inner-tension, worrisome
conflicts. She is MARY CRANE, an tension, attractive girl
nearing the end of her twenties and her rope.
A man stands beside the bed, only the lower half of his figure
visible. We hold on this tableau for a long moment, then
start forward. As we pass under the window shade,
CUT TO:
Shooting down at hotel entrance. Mary comes out, walks quickly
to a parked cab, gets in. The cab zooms up the awful street.
DISSOLVE TO:
A small, moderately successful office off the main street. A
cab pulls up at the curb. We see Mary get out of cab, pay
driver, cross pavement to the office door.
A two-car garage. One car is gone. Mary's car is parked in
the driveway. The CAMERA is low enough so that we can easily
read the Arizona number plate in the foreground.
Mary comes out of house, starts for the trunk, intending to
put the suitcase in, changes her mind, places the suitcase
and her handbag on the front seat, gets in, starts the car,
begins to back out of driveway.
DISSOLVE TO:
We are close on Mary's car, shooting in at her troubled,
guilty face. She seems to be driving with that excess care
of one who does not wish to be stopped for a minor traffic
irregularity. She stops for a red light at a main
intersection.
FROM MARY'S VIEWPOINT - (DAY)
We see Lowery and Cassidy crossing the street, passing right
in front of Mary's car.
MARY'S CAR - (DAY)
Mary freezes.
Cassidy, glancing into car, sees Mary, lets out a cheery
exclamation, elbows Lowery. Lowery turns, sees Mary, smiles
pleasantly, pulls Cassidy on.
MARY'S CAR - (DAY)
Mary watches the entire exchange with a look of stony horror
on her face.
Now we look closely at Lowery. As he reaches the curb, a
small confusion brightens his face. He remembers that Mary
intended to "spend the weekend in bed." He considers,
curiously, turns, looks back at her, a slight frown on his
face.
MARY'S CAR - (DAY)
Mary sees the pause and the look.
For a moment it even looks as if Lowery might be meaning to
cross back to the car.
MARY'S CAR - (DAY)
Mary's tension is unbearable. And at that moment we hear the
shrill shriek of the traffic cop's whistle.
Mary zooms the car away.
DISSOLVE TO:
Mary in car, driving, safely away from town. Her look is
less tense now, and more purposeful. After a moment, she
checks the fuel gauge, frowns, looks along highway for a gas
station.
FAST DISSOLVE TO:
MARY'S CAR - (DAY)
Approaching and leaving city limits.
MARY - (DAY)
Looks at gas gauge.
C.U. GAS GAUGE - (DAY)
We see Mary's car drive in, come to a stop. There are no
other cars about, this being a gas station off the main
highway, and the attendant is obviously in the shack. Mary
looks worried about having to make this stop, keeps her face
turned away from the shack, not wishing it to be seen.
No one comes and for a moment Mary considers driving on, as
if the emptiness of the station were a warning, an omen that
she should listen to. But the gas registers almost empty.
She has to blow her horn.
A YOUNG MAN comes out of the shack, starts toward her car.
At that moment, we HEAR the RINGING of the TELEPHONE in the
shack. The Attendant walks a few steps further, toward Mary's
car, then decides to go back and answer the phone. The phone's
insistent ringing unnerves Mary.
She starts her car, zooms off.
We see the Attendant, phone in hand, in the doorway of shack.
He looks after the departing car with little or no expression.
CAR
The car grows smaller as it races up the road. The sun is
setting. There is something vaguely ominous about the
darkening sky into which the car seems to be disappearing.
DISSOLVE TO:
MARY IN CAR - (NIGHT)
The oncoming headlights hurt Mary's eyes. She is getting
sleepy and her vision is blurring. Her eyes close,
involuntarily, snap open again. She stretches than wide, as
if forcing them to stay open. The oncoming lights seem to
glare to a point beyond endurance. She murmurs "Sam - Sam."
LONG LAP DISSOLVE:
We see Mary's car, dim in the early dawn, tilted on the soft
shoulder of the road, looking somehow sad and pathetic, like
a child's thrown-away toy. And from this angle it would appear
that the car is empty.
After a moment, during which there are no other vehicles
passing, we see, coming from the far distance, a HIGHWAY
PATROLMAN in a patrol car. He passes Mary's car, notes its
apparent emptiness, U-turns, comes back up behind the car.
He gets out and approaches the driver's side window.
The Patrolman looks down into the car.
The Patrolman holds up his hand.
PATROLMAN
(startled)
Hold it there!
Mary slams down on the brake, tries to pull herself together.
The Patrolman raps again, less gently.
Reluctantly, Mary rolls down the window. The Patrolman studies
her for a moment.
PATROLMAN
In quite a hurry.
MARY
Yes.
(because he seems to
be awaiting an
explanation)
I didn't mean to sleep so long. I
was afraid I'd have an accident last
night, from sleepiness... so I decided
to pull over...
PATROLMAN
You slept here all night?
MARY
(a faint edge of
defensiveness)
Yes. As I said, I couldn't keep my
eyes...
PATROLMAN
(mere concern)
There are plenty of motels in this
area. You should have... I mean,
just to be safe...
MARY
I didn't intend to sleep all night!
I just pulled over... have I broken
any laws?
PATROLMAN
No, m'am.
MARY
Then I'm free to go...?
PATROLMAN
(a pause)
Is anything wrong?
MARY
Of course not! Am I acting as if...
something's wrong?
PATROLMAN
(almost a smile)
Frankly, yes.
MARY
Please... I'd like to go...
PATROLMAN
Is there?
MARY
Is there what?
(not waiting for an
answer)
I've told you there's nothing wrong...
except that I'm in a hurry and you're
taking up my time...
PATROLMAN
(interrupting, sternly)
Now wait just a moment! Turn your
motor off, please.
Mary seems about to object, thinks better of it, turns off
the ignition.
PATROLMAN
In the course of my duty, I never
"take up" anyone's time, whether
it's to give a warning, or a ticket,
or help! Believe that, M'am.
(a little softer)
Now if you woke up on the wrong side
of... the car seat, that's one thing.
But when you act as if I've just
placed you under arrest...
MARY
I'm sorry.
PATROLMAN
No need to apologize...
Mary starts the car, her face turned as if she wishes the
matter were all settled and the Patrolman had already gone.
The Patrolman isn't exactly one of those civil servants who
demands a thank-you, but he does feel her manner is a bit
too abrupt. He calls:
PATROLMAN
Wait a minute!
MARY
(jamming down the
brake)
Now what?
The Patrolman gazes at her a moment, then:
PATROLMAN
May I see your license?
MARY
Why?
PATROLMAN
Please.
Mary pulls her handbag up from the floor, where she'd placed
it when she stretched out for sleep. She puts her hand in
it, rummages for her wallet, cannot find it.
The Patrolman is staring at her. She glances at him nervously,
pokes in her bag a bit more, sighs, realizes she'll have to
remove some of its contents. Nervously, badly controlling
her fear, she takes out the money-filled envelope, and then
the important papers envelope, filled then a couple of other
items, places them on the seat, finally finds her wallet,
opens it, hands it to him. He looks at the wallet, then at
the car.
The Patrolman walks around to the front of the car, checks
the license plate, and returns.
The Patrolman stares after Mary as she drives off, then starts
back to his automobile.
MARY IN CAR - (DAWN)
She is quite shaken, realizes she caused herself a great
deal of trouble and placed herself in unnecessary danger.
She is disturbed and angry and frightened at her inability
to act normally under the pressure of guilt. As she drives,
she glances into her rear-view mirror.
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR - (DAWN)
The Patrolman is following in his automobile, keeping behind
her at a matched speed.
MARY IN CAR - (DAWN)
She glances out at her surroundings.
MARY'S POV - (DAWN)
The Freeway ahead.
She suddenly turns off the highway.
MARY IN CAR - (DAWN)
She checks her mirror.
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR - (DAWN)
The Patrolman is no longer following, has not turned off
after her.
MARY IN CAR - (DAWN)
She breathes a sigh of relief, thinks a moment, makes a quick
decision.
DISSOLVE:
The big sign reads "California Charlie - Automobile Paradise."
We see Mary's car drive onto the lot and stop. Mary gets out
of the car, glances toward the lot office, turns her attention
to the line of cars, notice the California licence plates on
all of them. The CAR DEALER calls out from his office:
CAR DEALER
With you in a second!
Mary nods, starts walking along the line of cars as if making
a selection. Her eye is caught by the iron newspaper stand
on the corner, just outside the lot.
She stares at the papers, turns away, as if what she is
fearing would have to be impossible, then, having to satisfy
herself, goes to the stand, drops a dime in the iron slot,
picks up a LOS ANGELES newspaper, starts back into the car
lot as she glances worried at the front page. As she goes,
we see, coming up the street toward the lot, the same
PATROLMAN. He sees Mary, slows, swerves over to the opposite
side of the street, stops by the curb. Mary, engrossed in
the newspaper, and walking back ease the lot, does not see
the Patrolman.
The car dealer is out on the lot now, standing and waiting
for Mary. As she approaches, lost in her newspaper, he smiles.
CAR DEALER
I'm in no mood for trouble!
MARY
(glancing up, thrown
for a moment)
What?
CAR DEALER
(cheerfully)
There's an old saying, "First customer
of the day is always the most
trouble!" But like I said, I'm in no
mood for it so I'm just going to
treat you so fair and square you
won't have one human reason to give
me...
MARY
(interrupting)
Can I trade in my car and take
another?
CAR DEALER
You can do anything you've a mind
to... and bein' a woman, you will!
(chin-indicating her
car)
That yours?
MARY
Yes, it's... nothing wrong with it,
I'm just...
CAR DEALER
Sick of the sight of it!
(laughs)
Well, suppose you look around for
something that strikes your eyes and
meanwhile I'll have my mechanic give
yours the once over and... want some
coffee? I was just about...
MARY
No. Thank you. I'm in... a hurry. I
just want to make a change and
start...
She stops suddenly, almost with a gasp. She has seen the
Patrolman.
THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY)
He is staring over at her, his face dispassionate.
Mary has to force herself to look away.
CAR DEALER
One thing people never ought to be
when they're buying a used car is in
a hurry!
(starting away toward
her car)
But like I said, too nice a day for
arguing. I'll just shoot this into
the garage.
He starts into Mary's car. She looks at him, in near panic,
wanting to skip the whole thing. Torn, wondering if the
presence of the Patrolman doesn't negate the value of changing
cars, wondering how she can get away, wondering if she'll be
followed, or if the Patrolman will go away if she does stay
here.
All these panic-fears rush her mind and she can do nothing.
The Car Dealer has driven her car into the garage. She stands
in the middle of the lot, feeling like a shooting target.
She looks toward the garage.
THE GARAGE - MARY'S POV - (DAY)
Mary's car is in it.
Mary decides she cannot back out now without arousing further
suspicion, is compelled to look again at the Patrolman.
THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY)
He still watches. With a self-angry sigh of resignment, she
goes to a close car, looks at it. The Car Dealer is returning.
CAR DEALER
That's the one I'd've picked for you
myself!
MARY
How much?
CAR DEALER
Go ahead! Spin it around the block.
Now I know you don't know anything
about engine condition, but you can
feel, can't you... and it's all in
the feel, believe me, you feel that
one around the block...
MARY
It looks fine. How much will it be,
with my car...?
CAR DEALER
You mean you don't want the usual
day and a half to think it over?
(laughs)
You are in a hurry! Somebody chasin'
you?
MARY
Of course not. Please.
CAR DEALER
Well... heck, this is the first time
I ever saw the customer high-pressure
the salesman!
(laughs, sees she is
in no mood for it)
I'd figure roughly...
(looks at the car,
then back at the
garage)
...your car plus five hundred.
MARY
Five hundred.
CAR DEALER
Aha! Always got time to argue money,
huh...?
MARY
All right.
As the car dealer looks at her in amazement, she reaches
into her bag, feels the money-filled envelope, pauses.
CAR DEALER
(slowly)
I take it... you can prove that car's
yours... I mean, out of state and
all... got your pink slip and your...
MARY
I think I have the necessary papers.
Is there a Ladies Room...
CAR DEALER
In the building ...
(indicates, continues
to stare quietly)
Mary starts for the building, glancing
once in the direction of the
Patrolman.
THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY)
He still sits, his motor throbbing, his face quiet.
Mary goes into the office building.
CUT TO:
The Car Dealer has moved the car of her choice out of the
line. It stands in the clearing.
CAR DEALER
(too cheerfully)
I think you'd better give it a trial
spin. Don't want any bad word of
mouth about California Charlie.
MARY
I'd really rather not. Please.
Can't
we just settle this and...
CAR DEALER
I'll be perfectly honest with you,
Ma'am. It's not that I don't trust
you, but...
MARY
(interrupting)
But what?
Is there anything so
terribly wrong about... making a
decision and wanting to hurry? Do
you think I've stolen... my car?
CAR DEALER
No, M'am. I was only about to say,
I've sent my mechanic out to give
your car a little test... that's
all.
MARY
(handing him the
ownership papers and
the new bills)
I'd like to be ready when he gets
back.
CAR DEALER
Okay. If you'll come along...
He starts toward the office building. Mary follows, closely,
anxiously. She glances, sees:
THE PATROLMAN - MARY'S POV - (DAY)
He is still at the far curb.
The Car Dealer goes into his office. Mary follows.
THE PATROLMAN - (DAY)
A second later, he starts his automobile, checks traffic,
comes across the street, slowly, and drives onto the lot. He
pauses a moment, then drives across the lot, passing the
office, going on to the other exit, stops there as Mary's
car is driven back onto the lot.
The MECHANIC stops Mary's car, hops out, waves to the
Patrolman. The Patrolman waves back, goes on a bit until he
is behind Mary's car, stops again, looks over at the office.
In a moment, Mary comes out, hurries across to her new car,
gets in, starts the motor. The Mechanic yells:
MECHANIC
Hey! Miss?
Mary pauses, turns, sees the Patrolman, then the Mechanic.
Her face goes white. She doesn't know which man called her.
Then the Mechanic waves, starts forward with her suitcase.
MARY
(as Mechanic reaches
car)
Just put it right in here, please...
beside me.
The Mechanic smiles, throws the suitcase in. Mary zooms off.
As she drives out of lot we see the Mechanic, the Car Dealer
and the Patrolman all looking after her.
DISSOLVE TO:
MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE
Mary is driving tensely. She checks the rear-view mirror, is
more shocked than pleased when she sees...
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR
No sign of the Patrolman.
MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE
She turns her face, looks out at the highway.
ROUTE 99 - MARY'S POV
It is heavy with traffic.
MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE
Again she checks the mirror and although...
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR
There is still no sign of the Patrolman.
MARY IN NEW CAR ON ROUTE
She cannot relax or feel safe, cannot convince herself that
nothing will come of the man's watching and suspicions.
CAMERA IS CLOSE on Mary's face now, recording her anxiety,
her fears. Her guilt shines bright in her eyes and she is a
person unaccustomed to containing this much guilt in this
realistic a situation. Suddenly, we hear the SOUND of the
Used Car Dealer's laugh, hear it as clearly as Mary hears it
in her imagination. The "imagined voice" we hear is actually
the voice of the Car Dealer:
CAR DEALER'S VOICE
Heck, Officer, that was the first
time I ever saw the Customer high-
pressure the Salesman!
Somebody
chasing her?
PATROLMAN'S VOICE
I better have a look at those papers,
Charlie.
CAR DEALER'S VOICE
She look like a wrong-one to you?
PATROLMAN'S VOICE
Acted like one.
Mary blinks, shakes her head, as if trying to shake away
these voices of her imagination. She checks the rear-view
mirror.
MARY'S REAR-VIEW MIRROR
Still no sight of the Patrolman.
MARY IN NEW CAR
She tries to force herself to relax, almost succeeds when
she is sprung to tension again by....
The sight of a police car. As she drives past, we hear the
squeaky, unintelligible voice coming over the car radio.
Mary zooms down on the gas, whizzes ahead.
DISSOLVE THROUGH TO:
Mary's car dashing along.
DISSOLVE TO:
MARY IN NEW CAR
Mary looks weary, tired with strain and with hard driving.
Her eyes are heavy with worry and deep thought.
OUT THE WINDSHIELD
We can see that it is much later in the day, almost dusk.
MARY IN NEW CAR
We HEAR the sound of an agitated BUZZ of an intercom system,
a sound emanating from Mary's imagination.
After the second BUZZ, we HEAR the voice of Caroline.
CAROLINE'S VOICE
Yes, Mr. Lowery.
LOWERY'S VOICE
(a worried tone)
Caroline...? Mary still isn't in?
CAROLINE'S VOICE
No, Mr. Lowery... but then she's
always a bit late on Monday mornings.
LOWERY'S VOICE
Buzz me the minute she comes in.
Again Mary shakes her head, forces herself to stop hearing
these "invented" scenes of her imagination.
Now we cut to the view of the road, from Mary's viewpoint.
Darkness of evening is coming. In the dim twilight we see
the neon sign of roadside restaurants and gas stations
beginning to blaze on.
We cut again to the highway. The first oncoming headlights
slash at the windshield.
It is completely dark now, night.
Fast cut back to Mary's face. Oncoming headlights throw a
blinding light across her features.
CASSIDY'S VOICE
(undrunk, sharp with
rage)
Well I ain't about to kiss off forty
thousand dollars! I'll get it back
and if any of it's missin' I'll
replace it with her fine soft flesh!
I'll track her, never you doubt it!
LOWERY'S VOICE
Hold on, Cassidy... I still can't
believe... it must be some kind of a
mystery... I can't...
CASSIDY'S VOICE
You checked with the bank, no?
They
never laid eyes on her, no?
You
still trustin'? Hot creepers, she
sat there while I dumped it out...
hardly even looked at it, plannin'
and... and even flirtin' with me...!
A look of revulsion makes Mary close her eyes.
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD AGAIN
Big drops of rain begin to appear.
CLOSEUP - MARY
She is becoming aware of the rain starting.
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD
The rain increasing and backlit by the oncoming headlights.
CLOSEUP - MARY
Mary starts the windshield wipers.
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD
The wipers are having a battle with the now torrential rain.
CLOSEUP - MARY
Peering through the blurred windshield.
CLOSEUP - THE CAR WHEELS
slowing down in the flooding highway.
CLOSEUP - MARY
peering through the windshield. The oncoming lights are fewer.
CLOSEUP - THE CAR WHEELS
almost coming to a slow turn.
THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD
just blackness and rain.
CLOSEUP - MARY
peering.
MARY'S VIEWPOINT
An almost undiscernible light in the far distance, a neon
sign blurred by the rain-sheeted windshield.
MARY'S CAR
She presses down, forces the car to move on through the
flooded road.
As we move closer, we see the neon sign more clearly and can
faintly make out the large letters which read "Motel."
Mary
stops the car, lowers the window slightly, looks out. We see
the sign clearly now: "BATES MOTEL." Mary opens the car door
and dashes out into the rain and up onto the porch of the
motel office.
Mary pauses on the porch. The lights are on within the office.
She tries door, finds it open, goes into office. CAMERA
FOLLOWS her into office. There is no one present. Mary goes
to the desk, rings a small pushbell. There is no response.
Mary rubs her forehead in weariness and frustration, goes
back out onto the porch. She looks off in another direction,
slightly behind the office, and sees...
MARY'S VIEWPOINT - A LARGE OLD HOUSE - (NIGHT)
A path from the motel office leads directly up to this house.
There is a light on in one of the upstairs rooms. A WOMAN
passes the window, pauses, peers out.
We see her in clear silhouette. She quickly goes away from
the window.
Mary, having seen the woman, expects now that she will get
some attention. She stands a few moments, waiting.
No one comes. Impatience and anger rise in Mary. She dashes
out into the rain, to her car, gets in, opens the side window,
begins to honk the horn. After a moment, a YOUNG MAN open
the front door of the house, pauses, starts down the path.
After a few steps, he turns and runs back into the house.
Mary leaves her car, starts a dash for the shelter of the
porch. As she runs, we see that the Young Man has gone back
only to get an umbrella. Seeing that Mary is on her way to
the porch, he runs quickly, the umbrella unopened in his
hand. He gets to the porch a moment after Mary has reached
it.
He stops short, looks at her, then at the umbrella hanging
useless in his hand, then back to her.
There is something sadly touching in his manner, in his look.
Mary's impatience goes and she smiles and this makes him
almost smile. He gestures her into the office, standing back
to indicate that he will go after her. She goes into the
office.
Mary pauses outside the door, is about to start forward when
Norman comes round the building and walks along the porch,
past the office, stopping only when he is close to her. He
stares with painful embarrassment at the knowing look in her
eye.
MARY
I've caused you some trouble.
NORMAN
Mother...
(a hollow little laugh,
an attempt at sardonic
humor)
...what is the phrase... "she isn't
herself today"... I think that's it.
MARY
(looking at the tray)
You shouldn't have bothered. I really
don't have that much of an appetite.
Norman flinches, realizing she has heard his mother's
reference to Mary's appetite.
NORMAN
I'm sorry. I wish... people could
apologize for other people.
MARY
Don't worry about it.
(a warm smile)
But as long as you've made us supper,
we may as well eat it. Huh?
She begins to back into her room. Norman starts to follow,
hesitates as he sees the total picture of an attractive young
woman and a motel room. Bringing down the tray of food, in
defiance of his mother's orders, is about the limit of his
defiance for one day. He cannot go into Mary's room.
NORMAN
It might be nicer... warmer in the
office.
Without waiting for approval or disapproval, he turns, hurries
to the office. Mary looks after him, her face showing amused
sympathy, then follows.
Norman walking along the porch, in the direction of the big
house. Once on the path he pauses, looks up at the light in
the bedroom window, then pulls himself up, squares his
shoulders, strides manfully up the path.
CAMERA follows behind him. He opens the door of the house,
enters. We see him pause at the foot of the stairway, look
up at the bedroom door just at the head of the stair. He
holds for a moment, and then his resolve and courage
evaporates. His shoulders slump, sadly, mournfully. He by-
passes the stairs and slowly makes his way to the kitchen.
At the far end of the hall. He enters the kitchen, drops
wearily into a chair. After a moment, he stretches out a leg
and gently pushes the kitchen door closed.
CUT TO:
Norman is coming AT CAMERA, running head-on. He dashes into
an extreme close up and we see the terror and fear ripe in
his face. CAMERA PANS as Norman races past, holds as Norman
runs to the porch and quickly along it and directly to Mary's
room.
Norman comes out of Mary's cabin, closes the door carefully
behind him, goes along the porch to his office, goes in. We
stay outside. Immediately, the "Vacancy" sign goes off, and
then the motel sign goes off. As CAMERA GOES closer to the
office, the lights within go off and we HEAR a closet door
opening and then the SOUND of a pail being picked up. Norman
comes out of office, closes door, looks cautiously about,
goes along porch, carrying pail with mop in it, goes into
Mary's cabin, closing the door after him.
We see Norman pauses at the door, check cautiously, then
hurry across the porch and into Mary's car. He circle-turns
the car, so that its trunk is backed up to the turns porch,
directly opposite Mary's door, as close as it can go.
Then he alights, goes to the trunk, opens it with the key
and, leaving the trunk lid raised, goes back into the cabin.
As Norman stands in the doorway, he is suddenly and blindingly
lit by the bright headlights of a passing car. The flash of
the lights and the SOUND of the SPEEDING CAR are over in a
flicker of a moment, but it takes a few seconds for Norman
to regain his former tense composure. Then he goes to the
car trunk, raises it with his foot, throws the suitcase and
the pail into it, slams it shut. He pauses a moment, then
realizes he has left the bathroom light on in Mary's cabin.
He returns to cabin. As he enters, his eye is caught by the
newspaper on the bedside table. He goes to it, takes the
newspaper, and looks once again into the bathroom. His glance
goes right over the toilet bowl.
He turns out the lights, crosses the darkened cabin, goes
out onto the porch.
He reopens the trunk, tosses in the newspaper and closes it.
He goes around and jumps into the car and starts away.
We HOLD on the trunk, follow it for a while, then
DISSOLVE TO:
The car pulls away from a CLOSE ANGLE on the trunk and as
CAMERA HOLDS we see that we are now in a swamp area.
It is quiet except for the irritating noises of night insects.
Norman stops the car at the very edge of the swamp, turns
off the lights, gets out, leaving door open. He looks at the
swamp, seems doubtful of its ability to swallow up the car,
realizes he has no choice. He leans into the car, releases
the emergency brake, starts to push. The front of the car
begins to roll into the swamp. Suddenly there is the LOW,
THROBBING SOUND of a motor. Norman freezes, listens.
The SOUND grows louder and Norman realizes it is an airplane
flying overhead. The car is rolling quickly now. Norman jumps
away, slams the door shut, stands tense. The SOUND of the
plane overhead grows louder.
Norman looks up.
NORMAN'S VIEWPOINT - THE BLACK SKY
We see no plane. The SOUND of the motor is beginning to
diminish.
CUT BACK TO:
NORMAN
We see the relief in his face. He looks at the car.
More than two-thirds of it have already sunk into the swamp.
The trunk alone seems to hold poised above the sand and slime,
as if refusing to go the rest of the way. Norman begins to
panic, he steps dangerously close, pushes with his foot. And
slowly the car sinks, until finally it is gone and we hear
only the gentle plop of the swamp's final gulp, and see only
the small after-bubble, like a visual burp.
Norman waits a moment, then begins stamping out the tire
marks, so obvious in the wet ground around the swamp.
He stamps and drags his feet over the markings as we:
DISSOLVE TO:
CLOSE UP NORMAN
standing on the porch of the motel, leaning against a post.
He is staring out into the night, a look of guarded, casual
innocence on his face, as if he were taking one last moment
of peaceful night air before retiring. Then he glances down
and CAMERA follows his gaze. A hose is lying on the ground
outside Mary's cabin, its stream of water obliterating the
tire marks.
After a moment, Norman's hand comes into shot, picks up hose,
places it in a new position. As CAMERA PULLS BACK, we see
that the water from the hose has erased and rearranged the
road markings so that it would be impossible to tell that a
car had been parked here.
After a short wait, Norman goes to the hose-faucet, turns it
off, unscrews the hose. As he rolls the hose, he walks away
from the spot, past the office, heading for the path that
leads to the house. He goes up the path, pauses at the steps
of the house, tosses the curled hose onto the lawn, goes up
the steps and into the house. CAMERA FOLLOWS him in, PAUSES
as he pauses at the foot of the stairs. Norman goes up the
stairs.
On the landing he stops. The door to his mother's room is
closed. Lying in a heap outside the door are a blood-stained
dress and a pair of elderly-woman's shoes. From an EXTREMELY
HIGH ANGLE, we look down on Norman as he bends to pick up
the stained dress and shoes.
He rolls the shoes into the dress, tucks the small, neat
bundle under his arm, and starts down the stairs, heading
for the basement.
It stands silhouetted against the sky. There is a long wait.
Then, slowly, a curl of smoke comes out of the chimney.
FADE OUT:
FADE IN
They emerge from the store and walk along to the hotel.
As
they enter, Arbogast is in the act of taking over a white
Ford sedan from a rental car man. They glance at him and he
returns a cynical look.
DISSOLVE TO:
Outside another hotel we see Arbogast alight from the white
car and go into new hotel.
DISSOLVE TO:
The white car speeding along the highway.
DISSOLVE TO:
Arbogast going into the office - we see the sign above him.
DISSOLVE TO:
A high shot showing the freeway and Bates house and motel on
the side old highway. A pause and then across the bottom of
the picture a white car speeds by on the freeway.
DISSOLVE TO:
Another Hotel. Arbogast goes in.
DISSOLVE TO:
The white car speeding along the freeway again going in the
opposite direction to last time. Norman, a tiny figure, is
seen going up the steps to his mother's house.
DISSOLVE TO:
Arbogast's search is getting down in the scale. This is an
entrance to a cheesy boarding house. "Rooms to Rent," etc.
He looks at his list and then goes in.
DISSOLVE TO:
The white car goes by on the freeway again.
DISSOLVE TO:
Arbogast goes in.
DISSOLVE TO:
Heavy traffic on the freeway. A beat or two - again the white
car. It slows up opposite the distant motel. It makes a turn
and goes back out of scene. A pause and it reappears on the
old road and slowly makes its way toward the Bates' Motel.
We now see Norman. He has brought out an old rocking chair
and has placed it on the office porch and is sitting hunched
in it. And he is darning one of his own socks. CAMERA HOLDS.
Beyond the porch, and Norman, we see the old house and can
barely make out, in the twilight dimness, the figure of his
mother seated at the window. Here, too, there is that quality
of quiet peace surrounded by a vague foreboding.
Now Norman looks up at the SOUND of the approaching car.
And continues looking as the car comes to a stop and Arbogast
gets out. Arbogast gives the place a quick once-over, gazes
at Norman, starts forward. In his steps and manner there is
that bored, routine-logged quality of a man who has seen too
many motels and asked question of too many hotel managers
over too short a period of time.
Norman rises as Arbogast comes forward.
NORMAN
(shoving sock in his
pocket)
I always forget to put the sign on,
but we do have vacancy.
(Cheerfully)
Twelve in fact. Twelve cabins, twelve
vacancies.
ARBOGAST
(pleasantly)
In the past two days I've been to so
many motels, my eyes are bleary with
neon. This is the first one that
looked like it was hiding from the
world at large.
NORMAN
I don't really forget the sign, it
just doesn't seem... any use.
(Points)
This used to be the main highway.
(Starts for office)
Want to register, please?
ARBOGAST
Sit down. I don't want to trouble
you, just want to ask...
NORMAN
No trouble. Today's linen day. I
change all the beds once a week,
whether they've been used or not...
dampness. I hate the smell of
dampness.
(Opening office door)
It's such a dank smell.
Norman is holding the door open, so Arbogast walks in.
Norman follows.
Norman walks down the porch, hesitates before Cabin One,
walks on a bit toward Cabin Two, stops, turns to see if
Arbogast is following. Arbogast has come out onto the porch,
but is not following. He has walked to the opposite end of
the porch and is standing at its edge, looking up at the old
house. The upstairs window is in darkness. The neon of the
Vacancy and Motel signs splash strange light over the scene.
NORMAN
Change your mind?
Arbogast does not reply. Norman becomes apprehensive, starts
to Arbogast, forcing himself to remain calm and cheerful.
NORMAN
I guess I've got one of those faces
you can't help believing.
ARBOGAST
(to Norman, but
continuing to stare
at the house)
Anyone at home?
NORMAN
I live there. Alone.
ARBOGAST
Someone is sitting in that window.
NORMAN
My mother.
Arbogast turns, gazes seriously at him.
NORMAN
She's... ill. Confined to her room.
It's practically living alone.
ARBOGAST
(after a pause)
If this girl Mary Crane were here,
you'd have no reason to hide her
would you?
NORMAN
Of course not.
ARBOGAST
If she paid you well?
NORMAN
Now, look...!
ARBOGAST
Or if she had you say... gallantly
protecting her... you wouldn't be
fooled... you'd know she was just
using you. Wouldn't you?
NORMAN
I'm not a fool! And I'm not capable
of being fooled! Not even by women!
ARBOGAST
I didn't mean that as a slur on your
manhood. I'm sorry.
NORMAN
(disturbed now)
That's all right. maybe she could
have fooled me.
But...
(a rueful smile)
She didn't fool my mother.
ARBOGAST
Your mother met her?
(quickly)
Can I talk to your mother?
NORMAN
No. I told you, she's confined...
ARBOGAST
Just for a moment. She might have
picked up a hint you'd miss.
ARBOGAST
Sick old women are sharp. Come on, I
won't disturb...
NORMAN
No! Just no!
I have one of those
breaking points like any other man,
believe it or not, and I'm near it.
There's just so much pushing I can
take and I think...
ARBOGAST
All right!
(starts away, toward
his car, pauses)
Might save me a lot of leg-work if I
could just talk to your mother.
But
I'd need a warrant for that, won't
I?
Norman does not respond. Arbogast gets in his car, starts
the motor. Norman looks up, studies the man's face, his own
face showing apprehension. Arbogast backs the car around
very slowly, his gaze divided between the old house and the
lighted window of Cabin Two. As he turns the car out, his
headlights light up the porch.
Norman stands, watching him drive away.
The car pulls up and Arbogast gets out of car, leaving motor
running. As he starts to walk across the highway, CAMERA
PULLS AWAY and we
CUT TO:
Arbogast gets to the phone booth, enters. CAMERA STARTS
FORWARD, and we see Arbogast remove a small notebook from
his pocket, check on a number, drop a dime in the slot and
dial this number. As we reach phone booth,
CUT TO:
ARBOGAST
(into phone)
Miss Crane, please.
(listens)
She leave a number?
(listens)
Thanks.
(hangs up, dials again,
waits)
Lila there, Mr. Loomis? Arbogast.
(waits)
Lila? Look, this isn't much, but it
might make you feel a little better.
Mary was up here. Spent last Saturday
night at Bates'
Motel, out here on
the old highway.
(listens)
Young fellow runs it, said Mary spent
the night, left, period!
(listens)
I did question him, believe me. I
think I got all there was to get.
Just have to try to pick up the scent
from here.
(listens)
Well... maybe that's because I don't
feel entirely satisfied.
He's got a
sick old mother, confined type, and
I think she saw Mary and talked to
her. Shame, too... confined old women
love to talk to strangers.
(listens)
I was, but I think I'll go back to
the motel, first.
(listens)
No, you stay put, Lila. With Loomis.
I should be back in an hour.
(listens)
All right. And Lila... You'll be
happy to know what I think. I think
our friend Sam Loomis didn't even
know Mary was here.
(smiles)
See you in an hour. Or less.
He hangs up, gets out of the phone booth.
DISSOLVE TO:
A distant view of the House and Motel. There is a light on
in the house. There is also a light on in Norman's office.
We see Norman emerge from his office and move along the porch
toward the distant cabins. He carries sheets on his arm. He
goes into the last cabin and switches the light on. Into the
foreground the hood of the white Ford enters the scene and
stops. Arbogast gets out. He goes over to the Motel office.
Arbogast goes in.
Arbogast comes out and looks off. He sees:
THE LAST LIT CABIN
The door ajar.
C.U. - ARBOGAST - (NIGHT)
would go along but he stops with a new thought. He turns
around and looks off.
L.S. - THE OLD HOUSE FROM HIS VIEWPOINT - (NIGHT)
C.U. - ARBOGAST
comes to a decision. He goes off.
L.S. ARBOGAST
dashes up the stone steps to the House.
MEDIUM SHOT
CAMERA HOLDS as Arbogast goes up onto the porch. The house
is dark within except, as we can now see, for a faint spill
of light in the foyer, light which comes from the upstairs
hall. Arbogast goes to the living room window, looks in,
sees only darkness. Then he goes to the door, listens for
along moment, hears nothing.
Very slowly, almost painfully, he turns the knob of the door
and pushes gently with his arm and shoulder. The door begins
to open. He allows it to open just enough for him to slip
through and into the foyer.
CUT TO:
Tall and lonely still against the moonlight, the figure of
Norman, silhouetted. He doesn't move, merely stands there at
the edge of the swamp, staring down at the now calm and quiet
face of it.
CUT TO:
All light are out, except the light in Norman's mother's
room. And her figure can be seen sitting in the window,
relaxed in a high-back chair, her face turned into the room.
After a second, we hear the SOUND OF A MOTOR, and then Sam's
small pick-up truck swings into the driveway.
Sam stops the motor, automatically switches off headlights,
pauses as he observes the silence and darkness of the area.
Then he hops out of the cab, goes quickly to the office,
knocks on the door. As he waits for a response, he looks
down the long porch, studies the darkened cabins, knocks
again, louder, looks in the other direction and sees the
house and the figure at the one lit window. He stares a moment
then calls loudly:
SAM
Arbogast?
CUT TO:
The silhouette of Norman. He is still. Over shot, very dimly,
comes the SOUND OF SAM'S VOICE, calling again for Arbogast.
Norman turns slowly until, in silhouette, we see his profile,
his chin lowered furtively as he looks over his shoulder in
the direction of the house. There is silence for a moment,
and then again the SOUND of Sam POUNDING at the door.
DISSOLVE TO:
A dark, quiet, tree-ceilinged street, the small neat houses
dim in the moonlight. Sam's pick-up truck comes down the
street, pulls up before the house of Sheriff Chambers. CAMERA
MOVES IN on Sam and Lila as they remain for a moment in the
truck's cab, staring quietly at the sleeping house.
SAM
Our Deputy sleeps.
LILA
Well?
SAM
Nothing.
Just... all the lights
out... must be asleep.
LILA
(a small exasperation)
Does that mean we can't...
SAM
No. I'm just procrastinating.
People
hate when the doorbell rings in the
middle of the night.
(gives up, starts out)
Come on.
He gets out of cab, goes around to help Lila. She is already
out. CAMERA FOLLOWS them up the small path to the front door.
Sam presses the bell button. Both he and Lila are almost
knocked over by the shocking, clanging, ear-splitting BLAST
OF THE BELL within the house, a ring which sounds more like
a fire alarm than a doorbell.
He tries to smile, fails. Lila doesn't even try. The
downstairs hall light goes on and a moment later the door is
unhesitatingly opened by MRS. CHAMBERS, a small, lively stick
of a woman wrapped in a thick flannel robe and a corona of
hospitality.
MRS. CHAMBERS
Oh?
SAM
Sorry, Mrs. Chambers. I hate bothering
you...
MRS. CHAMBERS
You didn't!
(a cross look up at
the bell)
It's tinkerbell.
(a quick smile at
Lila)
Al wants to be sure he'll hear it if
anyone rings it in the middle of the
night.
(to Sam)
Well come on in, at least!
As she opens the door wide,
CUT TO:
Norman comes off the porch, walks to the path and directly
up to the house, opens the door and goes in.
CUT TO:
An overcast morning, but a sunny-faced crowd. The service is
just over, there is contentment, and peace, and just a little
I-went-to-church-smugness in the faces of the churchgoers as
they come out of the chapel, and spread their separate ways
away.
Amongst the crowd, waiting and searching the faces, are Sam
and Lila. In their expressions there is no peace, no
contentment. CAMERA MOVES IN CLOSE. They are not speaking.
Lila looks as if she has had no sleep.
Suddenly, Sam becomes alert, takes Lila's arm, starts toward
the church.
CAMERA MOVES WITH THEM, stops as they approach Sheriff and
Mrs. Chambers. The Sheriff stares rather sympathetically at
Lila. Mrs. Chambers smiles nicely.
SAM
We thought, if you didn't mind, we'd
go out to the motel with you.
MRS. CHAMBERS
He's already been.
SHERIFF
Went out before service.
MRS. CHAMBERS
Have you two had breakfast?
SAM
(To Sheriff, not a
question)
You didn't find anything.
SHERIFF
Nothing. Here, let's clear the path.
He moves away and the others follow. CAMERA PANS them to the
curb.
LILA
(Interrupting)
Did he say anything about my sister?
SHERIFF
Just what he told your detective.
She used a fake name, saw the register myself. Saw the whole
place, as a matter of fact. That boy is alone there.
SAM
No mother.
SHERIFF
You must've seen an illusion, Sam.
Now, I know you're not the seeing-
illusion type... But no woman was
illusion there and I don't believe
in ghosts, so there it is!
LILA
I still feel...
SHERIFF
Can see you do. Sorry I couldn't
make you feel better. You want to
come to my office this afternoon and
report a missing person... And the
theft, is what you want to do!
Sooner
you drop this thing in the lap of
the law, that's the sooner you'll
stand a chance of your sister bein'
picked up. How about that?
LILA
I don't know.
MRS. CHAMBERS
It's Sunday. Come over and do the
reporting at the house, 'round dinner
time. Make it nicer. You too, Sam.
She smiles brightly, as if having invited them over to discuss
this year's charity fandango, takes the
Sheriff's arm, starts away. The Sheriff nods as he goes.
Sam and Lila are alone now, at the curb, before the deserted
chapel. For a long moment they just stand there, their faces
as gray and overcast as the sky.
SAM
Maybe I am the seeing-illusions type.
LILA
You're not.
Sam takes her arm, starts walking her up the street toward
the spot where his pick-up truck is parked.
CAMERA FOLLOWS them.
SAM
Want me to drop you at the hotel?
Or you want to come over to the store?
Lila does not answer. They reach the truck. Lila looks
directly at Sam as he helps her into the cab.
LILA
I won't feel satisfied unless I got
out there, Sam.
SAM
Neither will I.
He slams the door, hurries around truck, gets into driver's
seat, starts motor. As the truck drives off,
DISSOLVE TO:
SAM AND LILA IN TRUCK - (PROCESS - HIGHWAY)
For a moment, both are silent; Sam watching the road as if
there were other cars on it, Lila staring at nothing in
particular, except perhaps her own inner fear.
LILA
I wonder if we'll ever see Mary again.
SAM
Of course we will.
LILA
Alive.
Sam looks as if he'd like to say something humorous, something
to cheer her. He cannot. He remains silent.
LILA
We lived together all our lives.
When we woke up one morning and found ourselves orphans,
Mary quit college and got a job, so I could go to college.
SAM
Where'd you go to college?
LILA
I didn't. I got a job, too.
(A pause)
I wonder if that hurt her, my not
letting her sacrifice for me?
Some
people are so willing to suffer for
you that they suffer more if you
don't let them.
SAM
(Almost to himself)
She was willing to lick the stamps.
Lila looks quizzically at him, is too concerned to pursue
it.
LILA
I wonder so many things about her
now.
Why she never told me about
you...
Funny, when you think there's
an answer to everything, you think
you know all the answers.
SAM
We were going to get married. Are
going to get married!
LILA
Do you know how I found out about
you? I found one of your letters...
it was a nice letter, Sam.
SAM
This is the old highway.
LILA
I suppose... when you were able to
marry her she'd have presented you,
all shiny and proper... she always
tried to be proper.
SAM
Watch your tenses.
LILA
Huh?
SAM
She always tries to be proper.
Sam slows the truck to a stop, sighs, starts to light up a
cigarette. Lila looks questioningly and impatiently at him.
LILA
You going to wait here for me?
SAM
I'm going with you. But we'd better
decide what we're going to say and
do when we walk in...
LILA
We're going to register. As man and
wife. And get shown to a cabin...
and then search every inch of that
place, inside and... outside.
SAM
You won't believe it...
(Starts motor)
But this will be the first time
I've ever pulled one of those man-
and-wife-renting-cabin capers!
LILA
(A tiny smile, first
in hours)
I believe it.
As truck starts to drive on,
CUT TO:
The place is empty and silent and washed dirty by the deep
gray of the cloudy sky. We see Sam's truck turning into the
driveway and pulling to a stop. After a moment, Sam and Lila
get out of the truck.
FRESH ANGLE
Close on Sam and Lila as they meet on the porch side of the
truck. The motel office and the house beyond can be seen in
b.g. of shot. Sam and Lila merely stare for a moment, then
turn and gaze up at the house. There is no figure in the
window and the shade is drawn. Same goes to the office door,
peers in, knocks, opens door, enters. Lila remains on the
driveway, beside the truck.
CUT TO:
SAM
(Unconsciously
whispering)
I wonder where Norman Bates does his
hermiting?
LILA
Someone was at that window. I saw
the curtain move.
Sam takes Lila's arm.
SAM
Come on.
He starts with her toward the path which leads to the old
house. CAMERA PANS with them, and as they turn around the
office corner, they see Norman coming down the path toward
them. They pause and Norman pauses. He does not smile, nor
speak. His usual grin and soft friendliness are gone;
containment and impassivity lie in their place.
SAM
(Cheerfully)
Just coming up to ring for you.
NORMAN
(Coming forward)
I suppose you want a cabin.
SAM
We'd hoped to make it straight to
San Francisco, but we don't like the
look of that sky. Looks like a bad
day coming... doesn't it.
Norman walks past Sam, giving him the sort of quick,
disapproving glance one gives a man who is obviously lying,
goes onto the porch and into the office. Sam and Lila follow
Norman.
Lila comes along the porch, pauses before cabin one, tries
the door. It opens. She closes it quickly as she hears Sam
and Norman coming out of the motel office, continues on down
the porch.
SAM
(To Norman, who is
following)
Don't bother yourself... we'll find
it.
He goes on down the porch, doesn't even glance at cabin one,
walks quickly and catches up to Lila just as she reaches
cabin twelve. CAMERA REMAINS with Norman, who is standing by
the office door, looking after Sam and Lila, his face alert
and no longer impassive. He waits a moment, after they have
closed their cabin door, then crosses to the pickup truck.
CAMERA MOVES with him. He studies the truck, then leans in
through the driver's window, twists the registration card
around, reads it.
It gives the correct name and address of Sam Loomis.
Norman comes back out of the window, glances once more toward
cabin twelve, then at the old house. His suspicions are
confirmed, and now there is the relaxation of relief in his
face. He takes on a purposeful air, turns, strides up the
path, up onto the porch of the house, opens the door, goes
in.
Sam closes the door, joins Lila, takes her hand.
Together they walk along the porch in the direction of Cabin
One. CAMERA FOLLOWS. They pause before the door of Cabin
One. Sam motions Lila to wait, to hold still, then goes on
to the office, opens the door, calls in:
SAM
Bates?
He waits, there is no response. He goes in and in a moment
comes back out, closes the door, goes to Lila.
She has already opened the door of Cabin One and has started
to enter.
ANGLE CLOSE on cabin one as Lila comes out, turns to her
left, goes along porch toward cabin twelve. Sam remains at
the door, then turns right, heading for the path. As he passes
the office, he is shocked to see Norman standing just inside
the open door.
NORMAN
Looking for me?
SAM
(Recovering)
Yes, matter of fact.
(The friendly grin)
The wife's taking a nap and... I can
never keep quiet enough for her...
so I thought I'd look you up and...
talk.
NORMAN
Satisfied with your cabin?
SAM
Fine.
Sam starts into the office. Just before going in, he glances
down the long porch, sees Lila standing outside the door of
cabin twelve, waves her a tiny "all clear" signal.
LILA
CAMERA ANGLES to include Lila and her point of view.
She watches Sam disappear into the office, waits until she
hears the door close, then looks about for another way to
reach the house. She sees the small alley at the end of this
L of cabins, starts toward it.
Behind the motel Lila hesitates. She looks ahead.
LONG SHOT - (DAY)
The old house standing against the sky.
CLOSE UP - (DAY)
Lila moves forward.
LONG SHOT - (DAY)
The CAMERA approaching the house.
CLOSE UP - (DAY)
Lila glances toward the back of Norman's parlor. She moves
on.
LONG SHOT - (DAY)
The house coming nearer.
CLOSE UP - (DAY)
Lila looks up at the house. She moves forward purposefully.
S.L.S. - (DAY)
The house and the porch.
CLOSE UP - (DAY)
Lila stops at the house and looks up. She glances back.
She turns to the house again.
S.L.S. - (DAY)
The CAMERA MOUNTS the steps to the porch.
C.U. - (DAY)
Lila puts out her hand.
S.C.U. - (DAY)
Lila's hand pushes the door open. We see the hallway.
Lila ENTERS PAST CAMERA.
There are many people gathered about the steps, the curious
and the concerned and the morbid. At the curb, a couple of
newspaper cars, two or three police cars, and a mobile unit
truck from the local television outlet. There is noise, and
chattering as questions are asked and answers given, and the
sounds of traffic, and of the television equipment being
moved into the courthouse, for on-the-scene reporting, and
the stern voices of policemen trying to keep people back.
The scene has a bright glare about it, that quality of sudden
light thrown on a fearful darkness.
CLOSER ANGLE ON STEPS OF COURTHOUSE
A POLICEMAN trying to make way for the television men,
muttering "keep back," etc., to the spectators. A TELEVISION
MAN, carrying a piece of equipment goes through door, and
CAMERA FOLLOWS him into the courthouse vestibule.
Here, too, there is a crowd, composed of Policemen, Reporters,
Television Men. The Television Men we have been following
stops beside a Policeman.
TELEVISION MAN
(Indicating the front
door he has just
come in through)
You think they'll take him out that
way?
POLICEMAN
(Looking at waiting
crowd, shrugging)
Probably have to.
(A rueful smile)
Besides, the taxpayers hate it when
something gets slipped out the back
door on them!
Over this exchange, the buzz of other voices, the movement
of men. CAMERA MOVES ON, down the corridor, gets to the door
of the office of the Chief of Police just as a young fellow
with a carton box filled with paper containers of sent-out-
for coffee reaches this door. CAMERA HOLDS as the COFFEE BOY
pauses a moment, then goes into the room.
CUT TO:
