While Jeff is continuing his phone conversation, we see the
object of his look. Two pretty girls have appeared on the
distant roof. They are smiling and talking, although we cannot
hear their dialogue. Each wears a terrycloth robe. With their
backs to the CAMERA, they take off the robes, slipping them
down over their shoulders slowly. Then, seductively, they
turn -- revealing the full beauty of their tanned and bathing-
suited bodies. It is almost as if they want to be noticed,
the center of neighborhood attention. They at least have all
of Jeff's attention. Then they spread the robes in front of
them, and lie down on the roof, and out of sight. Jeff seems
a little disappointed.
Jeff's attention is now drawn to another feature of his
backyard entertainment. THE CAMERA IS NOW FOCUSED on the
window of the small building where we earlier saw the girl
behind the oscillating fan. Loud ballet music is pouring
from her open window. The girl, now dressed in dark and
revealing leotard, and ballet slippers, has just turned away
from a portable record player. She begins the first graceful
movement of a modern ballet interpretation.
She gracefully moves across the room to the rhythm of the
music and dance, toward the ice box. With her feet still
moving, she throws open the door, and then rhythmically moving
back to the center of the room, gnaws the chicken bone,
occasionally waving it in the air as part of the choreography.
She now twirls over toward a table at the other side of the
room on which is an open package of bread slices, some butter
nearby.
With swaying body, she puts down the chicken leg, and
gracefully and rhythmically butters a slice of bread.
She picks up both bread and chicken leg and continues her
interpretive dance, alternately munching the bread and butter
and chicken leg.
THE CAMERA PANS from the window of the dancing girl, to the
window below. Someone is reading the New York Herald Tribune.
The paper lowers, and we see an elderly lady, in her late
sixties. She is a faded, refined type. She looks up in the
direction of the music and in a calm routine fashion adjusts
the volume of her hearing aid. She resumes her reading.
We now see the source of the piano music. It comes from the
apartment with the studio window which we saw earlier where
the man was shaving and listening to the radio. The short,
balding man sits at the piano playing a few notes, then
transferring them by pencil to notepaper on the piano rack.
He continues this process, fighting the interference of the
ballet music. The opening bars of his melody are beautiful
and ear-catching.
It is slow, hard work, and the ballet music finally becomes
such an interference that he gives up and walks to the window
to look down toward the dancer's apartment.
He stands by a table at the window which is littered with
records, the morning coffee cup, unwashed, the remains of
breakfast, old newspapers, song sheets, etc.
He takes a cigarette out of his mouth, looks for an ash tray,
and ends up putting it out in the coffee cup. He then returns
to the piano and begins picking out the melody the dancer is
playing on her record player.
We see a three-storied, flat-roofed apartment house.
The brick is weather-worn and faded. Each apartment has three
windows facing the back, one showing a hallway, one a living
room, and the window on the right opening into a bedroom.
On the second floor, a man has entered the living room from
a hallway door. He carries a large aluminum sample case common
to salesmen. He sets down the case heavily, removes his hat,
and slowly wipes his brow with the back of his right hand.
He takes off his coat and tie. His shirt is stained with
sweat underneath. He rolls up his sleeves, and his well-
muscled arms heavy with hair confirm his dark, husky build.
The salesman looks toward the bedroom door, hesitates, then
reluctantly walks toward it. For a moment he is hidden by
the wall.
The man enters the bedroom. We can see a woman lying on the
far bed. Near her, a small table is covered with medicine
bottles, spoons, boxes of pills, a water pitcher and the
other impedimenta of the chronically ill. The woman sits up
as the man enters. She takes a wet cloth off her forehead.
Before the man even reaches her, she begins talking, somewhat
vigorously. Pointing to a wristwatch, she seems to be saying
something such as "You should have been home two hours ago!
I could be lying here dying for all you'd know -- or care!"
The man stops short of the bed, makes gestures of trying to
placate her, but she goes on scolding. His attitude changes
to weary patience, then irritation, then anger.
He shouts back at her, turns and goes out of the room.
Back in the living room, he picks up his hat, throws it
against the wall in anger, and leaves the apartment, slamming
the door behind him.
We see the man who left his apartment in anger come out of
the doorway into the backyard. He is easy to identify through
the color of his garish necktie. In one hand the man carries
a small garden hoe and rake, and in the other a pair of
trimming shears. He goes to a small patch of flowers, perhaps
three feet square.
They are beautiful, multi-colored three foot high zinnias.
He kneels down, inspects them, touches them affectionately
and with some pride. His anger seems to have left him,
replaced by the kind of peace that flowers bring many people.
He stands up, carefully hoes the ground, them rakes it. Then
he snips a few leaves off the lower parts of the plant.
Finally, he waters them.
Into the next door yard we see emerging from the apartment
below the ballet dancer, the elderly lady.
She wear a broad sun hat, dark glasses, and a sunsuit
consisting of pink shorts and halter. She carries a copy of
the Herald Tribune, and still wears her hearing aid. She
settles into a folding, canvas deck chair.
Her skin is dead white, and her body is thin to the point of
emaciation. No sooner has she settled into her chair, than
she is attracted by the sound of the salesman working in his
garden. She gets up, walks to the fence, and looks over. He
notices her, but doesn't speak.
She begins gesturing to him how to take care of his flowers.
He listens for a moment, then looks directly at her. The
strong movements of his mouth show us that he objects
vigorously to the annoyance of her comments. She moves away
from the fence, started and a little shocked.
The elderly lady is now asleep in her deck chair, her face
covered with the Herald Tribune. There is no sign of the man
with the flowers.
She is sitting near the window looking into an upright mirror.
Dreamily, and methodically, she is brushing her long copper-
colored hair.
He is now looking at the windows of the apartments nearest
to him. A shade has gone up, and a man, obviously a caretaker
is raising a window with some effort. Having accomplished
this, he turns back into the room, and we now see him approach
a young man and woman who are standing just inside the
doorway. He hands a key to the young man, and then obligingly
brings in two suitcases which he places on the floor beside
them. He gives them a studied, but agreeable nod, then
departs.
We now see that the girl has a small hat with a veil, and an
ornate corsage pinned to her light blue tailored suit. The
boy, who like the girl is perhaps twenty years old, wears a
dark blue serge suit and a grey felt hat. He takes off the
hat, and scales it over to a nearby chair. Quickly they are
in each other's arms, kissing passionately, crushing the
girl's corsage and pushing her hat back a little. They part,
the boy laughs nervously, and takes a furtive glance out
toward the corridor. He looks back into the room, and beckons
her to come out. She follows him wonderingly. For a moment,
both are lost from sight. When they reappear, he is carrying
her in his arms, over the threshold. He sets her down, closes
the door, and they kiss again.
They part, still holding hands and looking into each other's
eyes. Then slowly, and significantly, she looks toward the
open window. He releases her hands, goes to the window and
pull down the shade, as she is reaching upward with both
hands to unpin her hat.
The CAMERA makes a short sweep around the neighborhood showing
that some of the rooms are now with their lights on.
The CAMERA PULLS BACK into Jeff's apartment until his head
fills the screen. He is asleep. A shadow of some other person
creeps over his face. His eyes start to open. He looks up.
Jeff's attention is concentrated on an apartment we have not
seen before. This belongs to a single woman, about forty
years of age. She lives alone. Her apartment is below that
of the salesman with the invalid wife.
A nearer view show us a more intimate picture of the woman
Jeff is concentrating on. She is thin and unattractive. At
the moment, she is putting on her make-up in front of the
bedroom mirror. She gives a half turn and picks up a pair of
horn-rimmed glasses, which she puts on, and leans nearer to
her mirror. She picks up a lipstick and proceeds to paint
her lips carefully.
Having completed her make-up, she takes off her glasses and
surveys her face in the mirror. She stands up, swings the
skirt of her dress around, admires herself in the mirror.
She is quite flat-chested, and the dress hangs unattractively.
She lifts her chin, gives one last look, and turns toward
her living room. As if she's preparing to meet someone.
THE CAMERA HAS PANNED slightly to the woman's living room
window. A small, candle-lit table is set up, with dinner for
two. The spinster sweeps into the room, smiling. She goes to
the door, opens it, and in pantomime admits an imaginary
caller. She pretends to kiss him lightly, take his hat, and
place the hat on a chair. Then she shows him to a seat at
the table, disappears into an unseen kitchen and returns
with a bottle and two glasses. She sits down, pours two
drinks. She lifts her drink in a toast to the imaginary man
opposite her.
Having finished her drink, the lonesome woman pours herself
another one. Then she starts to take a sip, smiling across
the table at her imaginary guest. She lowers the glass onto
the table. The smile fades from her face as her head drops.
Suddenly she buries her head in her arms over the table and
starts to sob.
The kitchen-lining room combination of the ballet dancer's
apartment has now been made more presentable.
The ice box is now skillfully concealed by a large Chinese
screen. All kitchen utensils have been put away, replaced by
more attractive effects, and lamp light softens the
surroundings.
Miss Torso is now wearing a cocktail dress, which shows off
her figure to great advantage, especially when she leans
toward three assorted men to offer them a plate of hors d'
oeuvres. She is the perfect hostess, animated, charming, and
with an added personal touch for each guest. She is behaving
with a sophistication which was not apparent when we first
saw her in the morning. Her every movement is followed
admiringly by the eyes of the three men -- one wearing black
tie, with a touch of grey in his hair, a Long Island socialite --
a young rather handsome, actor in grey flannel suit -- and
last, a bright, pleasant, young man who might possibly be
from Wall street, wearing a blue-pin-striped suit. The latter
two are engaged in an animated conversation. The young man
in the grey suit is showing the other young man some newspaper
cuttings he's taken from his pocket.
Miss Torso sees that the cocktail glass of the third man is
empty. She takes it over to the window, and starts to fill
it. The man in the tuxedo follows her over, with a casual
glance toward the other two. He stands beside her as she
makes the drink. He looks at his watch with some impatience,
and makes a side comment to her as to the lateness of the
time. She turns, gives him a light kiss on his cheek, as if
she's telling him to be patient. Instead of pacifying him,
it makes him more amorous, and he puts an arm around her
shoulder an plants a heavy kiss on her cheek. She turns to
face him, they look into each other's eyes a moment, and she
allows herself to be kissed on the lips -- but only long
enough so as to attract the attention of the other two men.
With a little admonishing look, she moves away from him, and
makes him rejoin the other two.
The newlyweds's apartment has the shades still drawn.
Although there's a light burning inside.
The salesman's apartment. We see both the living room and
the bedroom. The salesman has prepared a dinner tray, and is
carrying it from the kitchen, through the lining room, into
the bedroom. He places it on the lap of his wife, sitting up
in bed. He puts a couple of pillows behind her back to make
her more comfortable.
She doesn't bother to thank him, but is busy examining the
content of the tray. Her attitude shows her dissatisfaction.
Nothing is right. It's not what she wanted, and it's badly
prepared. She begins criticizing him. He starts to answer
her back, but decides better of it, and instead, leaves the
room. He goes to the kitchen reaches up to a wall cabinet,
takes down a bottle and pours himself a drink. Then he returns
to the lining room, listens a moment. The wife is grudging
beginning to eat the dinner. The husband quietly lifts a
phone from the cradle, and dials a number.
We get a better view of the salesman waiting while his
connection is being made. Whoever he has called answers. And
instantly there is a marked change in his attitude. He
relaxes, smiles, is warm. He talks softly, perhaps guardedly,
with an occasional glance at the bedroom door. In the bedroom,
his wife has become aware of the call.
Quietly she moves the tray, gets out of bed, and goes to the
bedroom door to listen. The wall hides her from our view.
Then suddenly, she apparently opens the door, because the
living room, we see her arm suddenly appear, pointing at the
man and the telephone. He speaks quickly into the phone, and
hangs up. His face is flushed and angry as he goes toward
the bedroom. In the bedroom his wife appears walking back to
the bed, followed by the husband. She is laughing, and he is
answering her in angry tones. She climbs in bed laughing.
The more she laughs, the more angry he gets, and the harder
she laughs. Finally, he leaves the room, goes into the living
room, back into the kitchen and has another drink. He stands
there, controlling an outburst of emotion, and seems almost
to be crushing the shot glass in his clenched fist.
Through the studio window of the song-writer's apartment we
see the man at work again on his original melody, and he is
farther along the line of the melody than before.
It is beginning to take some shape, and give promise of its
full beauty.
The CAMERA slowly sweeps over the various apartments with an
odd window lit here and there. In the distant street there
is still some traffic passing, with one or two pedestrians
going by. THE CAMERA completes its sweep, and starts to move
back again. Somewhere a dog howls. The PANNING CAMERA comes
to a sudden halt.
From his viewpoint we see the first few drops of rain starting
to fall. It is sort, gentle rain, not a downpour. There are
still some windows lit in the neighborhood. The apartment
house corridors all have small night lights burning.
The couple who sleep on the fire escape. The increasing rain
cause them to hastily gather their things to retreat inside.
The man, hurriedly untying the alarm clock from the railing
of the fire escape, lets it slip through his fingers. As if
falls to the garden below, the CAMERA FANS SWIFTLY down with
it. When the clock hits the ground, the alarm goes off sending
a shrill sound through the neighborhood.
Coming out of his apartment into the corridor on the floor
below is the salesman with the nagging wife. The shades are
drawn in his apartment, but a light burns dimly behind them.
The salesman carries a large aluminum suitcase -- the same
one we saw him with earlier in the day. The sound of the
alarm startles him. He turns toward the window a moment
listening. Then reassured that is is nothing important, he
turns and moves down the corridor.
The street corner, lighted by a lamp, is deserted. A moment
later, the salesman, still carrying the suitcase, moves
diagonally across the corner, head down against the rain.
The salesman is see coming down the corridor to his apartment,
still carrying the aluminum case. He quickly enters his
apartment door in a business-like manner.
The light comes from the song-writer's apartment. His door
is open, and he is hanging onto the door frame, his hand
still on the light switch. He surveys his apartment. He
appears rather drunk. He comes into the apartment, closes
the door behind him, and sways a little. He wears a hat,
pushed back on his forehead, and no raincoat. His clothes
are quite wet. He might have even fallen.
He looks disgustedly at the piano, then lurches toward it.
There is no doubt now as the state of his drunkenness. At
the piano he viciously sweeps all the note paper off the
music stand. This seems to give him some satisfaction, but
he loses his balance, twists sideways, and fall into a nearby
chair. He remains there, bleary-eyed and a little sick.
The salesman is again leaving his apartment with his aluminum
suitcase.
A brief moment or two. Then the salesman, carrying his
aluminum case, crosses the street.
The salesman's apartment shows the shades drawn and a dim
light burning behind them. The CAMERA PANS to the empty
corridor.
The street is deserted. At the right hand side of the screen
a light goes on. THE CAMERA PANS OVER and we see that Miss
Torso has returned from her date. She is wearing a three-
quarter length coat over her evening dress. She is inside,
with the door two-thirds closed, but she leans out to kiss
someone goodnight. Then it takes some coaxing to get the
door completely closed.
She turns the key in the lock. She listens a moment then
comes to the center of the room. She takes her coat off and
drapes it over chair. She removes the screen in front of the
ice box, then opens the ice box.
She searches it for something to eat; finds a big piece of
pumpkin pie. She closes the ice box. She starts to eat the
pie as she moves in the direction of the bathroom. Stopping
a moment, she puts the piece of pie on a table, and proceeds
to take off her dress. Undoing the zippers, she slides it
over her head as she passes into the bathroom. The dress is
thrown on a nearby chair, and the bare arm picks up a piece
of pie. She is now in the bathroom. We see her slip down the
brassiere straps, but the window does not permit us to see
any lower. As she munches on the pie, she pulls out a few
pins holding up her hair, which she proceeds to brush
rhythmically. She turns and moves down her bare back.
We catch a quick glimpse of the salesman, just passing the
alleyway, suitcase in hand. The CAMERA PANS across the ballet
dancer's apartment, over to the salesman's apartment. It
waits, until he appears in the corridor.
He enters his apartment.
THE CAMERA PANS slightly over the whole of the neighborhood.
The lights in Miss Torso's apartment snap out. Only one light
remains. It burns behind the drawn shades of the salesman's
apartment.
FADE OUT:
FADE IN:
It is now mid-morning. The sun is shining. Miss Torso is
practicing her dance to the sound of ballet music.
We can hear the song-writer at work, but the thing that
attracts our attention mostly, is some action that emanates
from the fire escape where the couple sleep at night. On a
long rope, the woman is lowering an open wicker basket in
which sits a small dog. When is reaches the yard below, the
CAMERA PANNING DOWN, the dog steps out and runs off to explore
the yard. The woman pulls up the basket, and leaves it on
the fire escape. The CAMERA PULL BACK into Jeff's apartment
where Stella is busy massaging Jeff's back at he lies face
down on the divan.
STELLA
You'd think the rain would have cooled
things off. All it did was make the
heat wet.
Stella hits a sore muscle in Jeff's back. He jumps.
JEFF
That's a stiff one.
The salesman, having just raised the shades in the living
room, is now looking out the window. It is not a casual look,
but a long, careful, searching appraisal of all the apartment
house windows in his neighborhood, starting from his left to
his right. His eyes move closer toward Jeff's apartment.
The salesman completes his searching glance at the
neighborhood. Then something directly below his window catches
his attention. He looks sharply downward, his body visibly
tensing.
THE CAMERA MOVES FORWARD, and as it reaches the edge of the
window, PANS DOWN and shows us what the salesman is looking
at. The little dog that was lowered in the basket is sniffing
at the salesman's personal flower bed.
The salesman leans forward and grips the window sill as he
watches the dog. The CAMERA PANS DOWN and we now see that
the old lady with the hearing aid is leaning over the fence
admonishing the dog. We can faintly hear her voice saying
something to the effect that he'll get into trouble. The dog
turns to glance at her and apparently taking heed, moves
away. The old lady is wearing a faded house-robe.
The salesman has his aluminum case on the table near the
center of the room. He is carefully wiping out the interior
with dust cloth.
The salesman has completed his cleaning of the case. He is
in the act of placing it on the floor. He turns and again
glances out of the window.
The man is now moving out of the living room, and the
binoculars PAN him though to the small kitchen which is seen
through a side window.
The man starts to busy himself in this kitchen with his back
to us, but the image is very unsatisfactory.
Through the view-finder of the camera, we are now brought
into close proximity with the salesman in his little kitchen.
His back is still to us. He half-turns and takes a used
newspaper. He spreads it open, along the drainboard. From
the sink he takes out a large butcher's knife, and a long,
narrow saw. They disappear from sight as he lays them on the
newspaper and proceeds to wrap them up. Having completed his
job, he emerges from the kitchen carrying the newspaper-
wrapped parcel.
For a moment he is lost behind the wall that separates the
kitchen recess from the living room. He does not reappear
for a moment.
Half of a man's body is now seen in the living room.
Then the salesman turns and moves to the center of the room.
He is not carrying anything. He sits down on a couch, with a
display of fatigue. He yawns and stretches out of sight at
full length on the couch.
The thermometer outside of Jeff's window, registering 83
degrees. The CAMERA PANS OFF to the left until it comes to
rest on the song-writer's studio. He is dressed only in
bathing trunks, and is vigorously cleaning his rug with a
carpet sweeper. In the middle of his sweeping, he stops,
hurries a step or two to the piano. He plays a couple of
notes with one hand, while he stands.
Listens, plays them again. Decides they are no good, and
returns to his carpet sweeping.
THE CAMERA PANS FARTHER LEFT to the salesman's apartment.
There are no lights burning behind the drawn shade of the
bedroom, but the living room and the kitchen are lighted.
There is no sign of the salesman.
THE CAMERA CONTINUES ITS PAN to the left, to include the
couple who sleep on the fire escape in the hot weather.
We now get an opportunity to examine these people more
closely. The man is balding, and middle-aged. He is wearing
striped pajamas. He is in the act of laying out the mattress.
His wife is slightly younger, peroxided, faded show girl
type. Also wearing pajamas, with a fluffy handkerchief in
the left pocket, the wife is leaning over the railing holding
onto the rope which leads to the dog's basket now on the
floor of the courtyard. Having been a one-time siffleuse,
her call to the dog is clarion and melodic.
The little dog emerges reluctantly from the shadows, and
steps into the basket. It begins to move upward, and THE
CAMERA FOLLOWS it. When the basket reaches the fire escape,
THE CAMERA PANS ON to the apartment of Miss Torso. She is in
the bathroom brushing her long hair, while her thoughts seem
to be far away.
THE CAMERA DROPS DOWN to the apartment below, occupied by
the elderly lady with the hearing aid. For the first time we
see something of her activities inside the apartment. She
wears a short smock, although her legs are still bare. She
is hard at work on a piece of abstract sculpture. It takes
the form of a piece of mahogany through which a simple hole
has been carved.
THE CAMERA MOVES ON much farther to the left, and eventually
comes to rest on the newly-weds' apartment with the shade
still drawn.
It MOVES ON and at last passes though Jeff's window, and
comes to rest on the two bid heads of Jeff and Lisa.
Her lips are brushing lightly against his cheek as she speaks:
LISA
How far does a girl have to go --
before you notice her?
Jeff moves his eyes slightly to something outside the window.
JEFF
If she's pretty enough, she doesn't
have to go anywhere. She just has to
"be".
The salesman's apartment, just as we saw it a moment ago.
The shades drawn and lights out in the bedroom, the shade up
and lights on in the living room and kitchen. Still no one
in sight.
LISA
Well, "ain't I?" -- Pay attention to
me.
Miss Torso is lying, face down, on her divan bed. The only
light in the apartment is from a reading lamp. She is reading
a book held in one hand, while eating a sandwich in another.
Her back is bare, and all she wears is a pair of brief dark
blue shorts. At one point, she lifts her torso up slightly
to brush crumbs out from beneath her.
At last the salesman is seen coming along the corridor.
He does not wear shirt, but only an undershirt. Slung over
one shoulder, with his arm through is, is a large coil of
sturdy rope. He goes through the living room into the bedroom.
He does not put on the bedroom lights.
As seen though the binoculars, the salesman comes out of the
bedroom, to the kitchen, where he gets a carving knife. He
turns around and goes back to the bedroom.
The lights go on behind the draw shades, after a short moment.
The dim shadow of the salesman is seen moving around the
room.
The drawn shades of the newlyweds' apartment. A dim light
burning behind them.
The shades in the bedroom are now up. Both beds are empty,
and stripped of their linen, the mattresses thrown up over
the end of the beds. The salesman, sweating heavily, stands
over a large, square trunk in the center of the room. It is
stoutly bound by the heavy rope we previously saw him bring
into the apartment. He wipes one forearm across his brow,
and then heads for the kitchen. In the kitchen, he produces
a bottle, pours himself two or three straight drinks, then
leans with a display of exhaustion against the kitchen sink.
From Jeff's viewpoint, all the windows are dark. The couple
are sleeping on the fire escape. The salesman's apartment is
dark as well. Suddenly a match flares, and we see the salesman
light a cigar. The flame of the match illuminates his face
for a moment. When is dies out, we see just the glow of the
cigar burning.
All we can see is the glow of the salesman's cigar.
FADE OUT:
FADE IN:
Thorwald's apartment. The shades up. No one moving.
The rope-tied trunk still sits in the bedroom.
To the left we see the basket lowering with the dog in it.
We HEAR the woman WHISTLING an aria.
The CAMERA PANS UP past the woman lowering the dog, up to
the roof where one of the sunbathers can be seen sitting up,
rubbing her body with sun tan oil.
Thorwald's apartment. We are now aware that the salesman is
now in his living room, lying out of sight on the sofa,
because the smoke from a newly lighted cigar is starting to
ascend toward the ceiling of his room.
Stella's voice is heard calling out from the kitchen:
STELLA'S VOICE
He'd better get that trunk out of
there before is starts to leak.
Miss Torso, in ballet outfit, is hanging up a small wash on
a clothes line. It consists mostly of lingerie. She is doing
her inevitable leg practice at the same time.
THE CAMERA PANS OVER SUDDENLY TO Thorwald's apartment, and
except for the smoke rising from the unseen sofa, there is
no activity.
The newlywed's apartment. Shade down, business as usual.
The shade suddenly going up in the newlywed's apartment.
The young husband leans his hands on the windowsill, and
looks out. He is wearing only his pajama bottoms, because of
the heat, and we see that he is a well-muscled, attractive
young man. He looks around with some satisfaction. He turns
at the sound of a woman's voice behind him.
GIRL'S VOICE
H-a-a-r-r-e-e...
He turns his head, is thoughtful for a brief moment, then he
pulls down the shade.
Two men wearing tan coveralls are standing outside Thorwald's
door. One of them carries a clipboard.
Suddenly Thorwald is seen sitting up on the living room sofa.
His hair is disheveled and he is unshaved. He stands up, and
moves toward the door.
He opens it, and after a short exchange of dialogue, he admits
the two men, leaving the door open behind them.
He leads the two man across the living room to the bedroom.
A close view shows the two man carrying the trunk across the
living room toward the corridor.
Jeff concentrates his attention on the alley-way that leads
to the street. Just normal traffic. The binoculars swing to
Thorwald apartment. The salesman is now at the telephone. He
has picked up the receiver, and proceeds to dial 221.
The salesman speaks some words to the operator. Placing the
call. As he does this, he reaches with his other hand for a
nearly bottle, and working the cork out with one hand, he
pours a stiff drink into a tumbler. He drinks it as soon as
he finishes talking with the operator.
Pulling across to the far side of the street we see the hood
and cab of a freight truck.
By the time the binoculars are up, another truck has crossed
from the left. In momentarily blocks out the side of our
freight truck. By the time the two trucks part, we can only
see the back half of the freight truck before it pulls out
of sight. Jeff is only able to read the words "FREIGHT LINES".
The binoculars are held for a moment until we see a puffing
and blowing Stella arrive at the opening of the alleyway.
She looks toward the front of Thorwald's apartment house.
And by her attitude we can see that there is no truck outside.
She looks about her for a moment.
The figure of Stella is seen, looking up toward Jeff's
apartment, and arms outspread in a helpless gesture.
LAP DISSOLVE TO:
The little dog is busily scratching away at Thorwald's pet
flower bed.
Thorwald coming out of his basement door, carrying a watering
can. He fills it from a nearby faucet. He does not notice
the little dog's destructive activities.
When the watering can is filled, he straightens up, turns
toward the flower bed. He stops for the briefest moment,
when he sees the dog. He walks to the dog, gently lifts him
out of the garden, and giving him a friendly little pat,
sends him off. He proceeds to patiently brush back the
disturbed earth, and then begins his watering.
Doyle, who has appeared, at the street opening. The detective
is surveying the front of the apartment building where
Thorwald lives. A paper seller behind him offers to sell him
a paper. Doyle isn't interested.
As Doyle saunters forward toward the salesman house, the
scene:
LAP DISSOLVES TO:
Miss Torso, in ballet costume, practicing her dance on the
outside balcony. She is exciting and desirable.
Thorwald's apartment is darkness. THE CAMERA PANS slightly
to the left, as we see the dog being lowered in its basket.
We follow the basket down to the yard which brings Miss Lonely
Heart's apartment into view. She is wearing a Kelly Green
suit, and is seated at her dressing table. She seems to be
putting on the final touches of her make-up, prior to going
out.
The long-focus lens brings Miss Lonely Hearts into an enlarged
picture which reveals details we have not previously noticed.
A pair of ill-fitting, horn-rimmed reading glasses rest half
way down her nose, and she has to tilt her head back slightly
as she applies lip-stick, with their aid.
Satisfied, she takes off the glasses, and examines her face
as a whole, through squinting eyes. She has faded good looks,
has fairly nice clothes, but is badly in need of advice on
hair dressing. Her hair-do makes her seem middle-aged. She
reaches for a tall glass of liquor next to her, and takes a
long drink. Putting the glass down, she squints to see if
she has disturbed the lipstick. Unable to see clearly, she
puts on the glasses again, looks, and touches up her lips
slightly.
She puts her glasses in a handbag, then stands to put out
the lights. She walks into the living room, finishing the
drink. The long-focus lens moves with her. She goes straight
for a bottle of liquor, and pours out a final neat slug, and
tosses it off. Then she leaves the apartment, with a show of
determination.
She turns out the lights behind her.
The songwriter is at the piano, poking out his melody, slowly,
note by note. He is in black tie, and from the looks of the
apartment he is preparing for guests. An attractive girl is
setting out trays of canaps, glasses, ice and liquor. She
pauses as she crosses the room carrying a tray of food. She
listens a moment to the songwriter's melody. Her expression
shows that it pleases her, and moves her romantically. She
comments on it to the songwriter, who starts from the
beginning again, playing it more fully.
Miss Torso, and a male partner whom we have not seen before,
are practicing a pas a deux. He is a tall flowing-haired
young man, lithe and graceful beyond normal masculine
capacity.
They stop, at one point, to listen to a word of comment from
a woman who is watching. By her gestures, she is obviously a
professional choreographer.
THE CAMERA PANS from this to the street beyond.
Standing there, on the sidewalk, looking up and down the
street is a Kelly Green clad figure.
We are now given a waist-high shot as the focus is adjustment
by Jeff. The figure is that of Miss Lonely Hearts. She seems
to be trying to figure out what to do, or where to go. She
nervously looks at a couple of men passers by. Getting no
reaction, she crosses the street, and seats herself at an
empty table in front of the cafe. She orders a drink.
She is suddenly blotted out by a figure of a man who enters
the picture from the left side. He is much nearer the lens,
because he is on this side of the street. He is, therefore,
slightly out of focus. The lens suddenly sharpens. It is
Thorwald, carrying a light-weight cardboard box under his
arm. THE CAMERA PANS him over to the right until he is lost
behind the building.
Thorwald comes up the corridor, and stands unlocking his
door. As he hesitates, we are able to see the cardboard box
he is carrying has the name of a laundry on it. He enters
the apartment turns on the living room lights.
He proceeds to the bedroom, and the lights go on there.
A number of suits and top coats are lying on an orderly pile
on the bed. He takes the laundry out of the box and puts in
on the bed next to the suits. Then he goes to the dresser,
and instead of putting the laundry away,
he proceeds to take out the contents of the drawers --
pajamas, shirts, sox, etc. He piles these on the beds.
Early night. In the dresser Thorwald finds an alligator
handbag. He holds it up thoughtfully. We have previously
seen this handbag hanging from the bedpost when Mrs. Thorwald
was in bed. Thorwald takes the bag into the living room,
where he picks up the phone and dials.
JEFF
Long distance again.
Thorwald reaches his party. As he talks, thoughtfully, he
takes some jewelry from the handbag -- a couple of rings,
diamond wristwatch, brooch, pearls, etc. He discusses each
piece, apparently trying to make some decision. Then,
seemingly satisfied, he replaces them in the bag and hangs
up.
The first four of the song-writer's guests come through the
door, admitted by the song-writer's girl friend.
There is a squeal from the woman who great each other, and
hearty "helloes" from the men. The song-writer dashes off a
LOUD VAMP of greeting on the piano, then gets up to offer
drinks.
Having completed his call, Thorwald returns to the bedroom
carrying the handbag. He goes to a pile of coats lying on
the bed. He lifts the top two coats slightly, and slides the
handbag under them and out of sight.
The lights are out in Thorwald's bedroom, and Thorwald is in
the act of pouring himself out a drink in the living room.
He comes to the window, glass in hand, and looks down into
the garden, nonchalantly. Over this, we HEAR Lisa's voice,
questioningly:
LISA
It doesn't seem to be in any hurry.
JEFF
(Stares out the window,
exasperated)
He was just laying all his things
out on one of the beds! Coats, suits,
shirts, sox, even his wife's --
Thorwald is standing at the window with his drink in his
hand. Then he turns, puts his unfinished drink down on a
table, and goes to the door. He puts the light out in the
living room and goes out the door. He walks briskly down the
corridor.
LISA
I wonder where he's going now?
JEFF
I don't know.
LISA
Suppose he doesn't come back again?
JEFF
He will. All his things are still
piled on the bed.
The street intersection. Some traffic, mostly pedestrian.
Miss Lonely Hearts still sitting at the cafe table, alone.
Drinking. There is no sign of Thorwald.
The party at the song-writer's has grow considerably larger.
An assortment of well-dressed people have now crowded into
the studio. They are drinking, eating, etc. At the moment, a
number of them are crowded around the piano, listening to
the composer's newest song -- which isn't quite completed.
However, the melody has become more beautiful than ever.
During the following scene, we HEAR the melody being played
a number of different ways on the piano.
The shade is going up in the newlyweds apartment. The young
husband throws up the window an lights a cigarette. He takes
a deep and satisfying drag on the cigarette, glancing toward
the song-writer's party.
Just as he starts to exhale the smoke, we HEAR his young
wife's voice off:
GIRL'S VOICE
H-a-a-r-r-e-e-!
He chokes on the smoke, sputtering and coughing. When he
recovers, he throws the cigarette down to the back-yard with
a show of irritation. Then slowly he pulls the shade down.
Behind us is SOUND of a door shutting
The party is now full progress. The room is overcrowded. And
some people are now sitting on the floor with their backs to
the window. Others are outside. A crowd hides the piano
player, but music can be head competing with the babble.
The window of Thorwald's apartment, completely dark.
The song-writer's party is now in full swing, and fairly
crowded. It is a happy, gay affair.
Miss Torso's apartment has the door closed, and all that we
can see of her, as she is lying on the divan, is her legs
swinging in arcs as she exercise to record music.
A light has gone on in Miss Lonely Hearts' apartment.
They look. Surprise of surprises, she has returned with a
lover hooked. He is much younger then she, and a little more
keyed up to the promise of an adventure still fresh to him.
Her actions are coy, and over-feminine.
She slips away from his hasty embraces and exploratory kisses
with the proper flush of confusion and nervous giggle that
seems to say, "It's quite a surprise you find me so desirable,
but me mustn't do anything improper, you know. After all,
we're practically strangers -- and what would you think of
me?"
She pours a drink for each of them with gestures over-genteel.
As she sips her drink and look at him over the rim of the
glass, he tosses his off with nervous dispatch.
He moves toward her, this time more cautiously. An embrace,
a long kiss. She puts her drink down on the edge of the chair.
It spills over onto the rug. He begins kissing her cheek,
her ear, her neck.
Suddenly and fiercely she pushes him away. Slaps him across
the face. He moves back with shock as she loudly and
emphatically orders him out, out, out. He flushes with anger
and embarrassment, and his mouth twists into unpleasant shapes
as he slaps degrading words back at her, telling her what
she is. She screams at him to get out. He leaves, slamming
the door behind him.
She goes back dumbly to the spilled liquor, makes a futile
effort to clean it up, and the collapses onto the rug sobbing
hard enough to shake her whole body.
We get a high comprehensive view of all the apartments.
Light are going on in some windows, shades are lifted on
others, people are beginning to lean out looking for the
source of the cream and sobbing. The song-writer's party
comes to a sudden halt, as his guest crowd to the window.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Lisa and Jeff at the window, looking out, startled.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The landlord, beneath the newlyweds, looks out. Tilting his
head up toward the center of the yard.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
A couple comes out on the high balcony to the right.
Look down.
MEDIUM SHOT
The newlywed's blinds come up, and for the first time we see
both of them at the window, the girl looking over the boy's
shoulder.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Some members of the song-writer's party move out to the patio-
balcony, to get a better look down in the yard.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The bird woman comes to the window. Her white face looks
forward toward the center of the courtyard.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Miss Torso, pulling a around her, comes out onto her porch,
and looks to her left.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Miss Hearing aid comes quickly into her backyard.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The couple who own the dog are standing on their fire escape.
They are both looking down, but while the husband is quiet,
the wife is holding her hands to the side of her head, sobbing
loudly. We have heard her sobbing since the moment of the
scream which she uttered.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Lying near the sidewalk in the backyard below the couple's
fire escape, is the silent body of the little dog they own.
Miss Lonely Hearts comes running out of the basement door.
She goes directly to the dog, picks it up in her arms. Then
she slowly turns and looks up at the sobbing woman above
her.
LONELY HEARTS
(Her voice clear)
It's dead! It's been strangled and
the neck is broken!
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Instead of increasing her sobbing, this news quiets,
momentarily, the woman who owned the dog. Her hands go down
to the railing of the fire escape, gripping it fiercely. She
lifts her face to the neighborhood, her lips set and her
eyes burning. Her chest moves convulsively from the crying.
SIFFLEUSE
Which one of you did it?
(Loud)
Which one of you killed my dog?
(No one answers; her
voice is acid)
You don't know the meaning of the
word "neighbor". Neighbors like each
other -- speak to each other -- care
if anybody lives or dies. But none
of you do! You don't talk, you don't
help, you -- you don't ---
(Fighting tears)
Even see. But I couldn't imagine any
Even of you being so low that you'd
kill a little helpless, friendly
dog! The only thing in this whole
neighborhood who liked anybody!
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The guests at the song-writer's party begin to move silently
back to the studio apartment.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The people move off their balcony into the apartment.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The woman almost screams at the people now, as she looks up
at the apartment.
SIFFLEUSE
Did you kill him because he liked
you? Just because he liked you?
She breaks out sobbing anew, and returns to her apartment
and out of sight, the crying growing fainter with her retreat.
The husband leans over the fire-escape, and motions Miss
Lonely Hearts to place the dog in the basket, which is already
lowered.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Miss Lonely Hearts puts the dog in the basket, and watches
as the husband draws it slowly up.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The bathing beauties go inside their apartment.
MEDIUM SHOT
The newlyweds draw their shades again.
MEDIUM SHOT
The landlord moves away from the window.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The dog moves closer to the fire escape, slowly, the husband
pulling the rope in hand over hand.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Miss Torso goes back to her apartment.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
Miss Hearing Aid turns down the volume of her hearing aid
and goes back to her apartment.
SEMI-LONG SHOT
The dog reaches the fire escape, and the husband tenderly
takes it out of the basket. He turns to carry it's into the
apartment.
Thorwald's apartment. It is dark. The only light that can be
seen in it is the glowing end of a cigar in the center of
the room, back from the window -- as if Thorwald was sitting
quietly on his sofa, smoking.
Thorwald's apartment. Still dark, and only the unmoving glow
of a cigar showing in the center of the apartment.
We wee the upper part of the bedroom window, belonging to
Thorwald.
The lower part of the window is covered by a wall. In the
bathroom, Thorwald is wiping the enameled wall with a damp
cloth. He rubs at particular spots now and then.
Over this we hear:
JEFF
Do you think this was worth waiting
all day to see?
LISA
Is he cleaning house?
JEFF
He's washing down the bathroom walls.
STELLA
Must have splattered a lot.
Through the viewer we see the identical view out of the
window.
JEFF
(Over)
Now take it away.
The viewer moves away, and we are left with the identical
scene, but not quite so still, a slight breeze stirring the
foliage.
The flower bed. The flowers have a slight dip in the center.
Jeff speaks off:
JEFF
There's a dip at this end. And since
when do flowers grow shorter in two
weeks?
STELLA
There's something buried there.
The garden again with its small indentation of flowers over
this we hear the ghoulish voice of Stella:
STELLA
Unless, he puts in standing on end --
which would be very original and not
require the use of either a knife or
a saw. My guess is she's scattered
all over town. A leg in the East
River -- an arm --
LISA
(Cuts in)
Stella, please.
Thorwald, in the bedroom, methodically folding a suit into a
suitcase. Another suitcase, unopened, is visible.
The alleyway and street. Just regular traffic.
Suddenly Lisa comes into the picture from the left. She is
carrying a white envelope. She stops, waves her hands at
Jeff, smiles, and then hurries on. The lens slowly pans to
the right and stops on Miss Torso's apartment. She is standing
on a small stepladder, nailing curtains above her window.
Her legs are bare, though she wears high-heel shoes. We do
not see more than half-way up her thighs. The lens takes
this in for the briefest split-second of hesitancy then moves
on to await the arrival of Lisa along Thorwald's corridor.
She does not appear yet. The lens moves back to get another
glimpse of Miss Torso, who is now descending the ladder. She
is wearing a leotard. Over this, we hear Stella's voice:
STELLA
What are you going back for?
The lens quickly swings back to Thorwald's corridor.
Lisa is seen turning the corner, and approaching Thorwald's
door on tiptoe.
Lisa approaches the door of Thorwald's apartment. The salesman
comes into the living room. He finds a package of cigarettes,
extracts one, and lights it. Lisa kneels down, and carefully
slides the letter under the door.
At this moment, Thorwald extinguishes the match, tosses it
into an ashtray, and turns toward the door. He freezes as he
sees the letter on the floor. This momentary hesitation allows
Lisa to straighten up, turn, and walk carefully but swiftly,
away. Thorwald moves rapidly toward the door. He bends down,
scoops up the letter, and examines it briefly. Lisa is just
turning out of sight at the end of the corridor, as Thorwald
throws open the door. He looks and sees no one. He takes a
few questioning steps down the corridor, then stops to examine
the letter again. Slowly he turns and makes his way back to
the apartment, tearing open the envelope.
Thorwald stops in front of his door to read the note.
There is some curiosity on his face. As he reads, all movement
and emotion drain from his body. He stands there, frozen.
Jeff's voice is heard over:
JEFF
You did it, Thorwald! You did it!
Suddenly Thorwald turns and dashes down the corridor.
As Thorwald dashes down the corridor, we hear Jeff's voice.
He cries out instinctively, but almost to himself:
JEFF
Lisa! Look out! He's coming!
Lisa suddenly appears at the ground floor door below
Thorwald's. She hides, pressing back against the wall tensely.
In the corridor above, Thorwald returns, frustrated. He comes
out onto the fire escape directly above Lisa. She is aware
of him, and immediately retreats into the doorway. She
disappears down the lower corridor, as Thorwald searches his
fire escape.
Thorwald is now passing through the living room into the
bedroom. He picks up a shirt and puts it on. He then returns
to packing his suitcases, moving unhurriedly.
Miss Lonely Hearts' apartment. She has opened a small brown
bottle, and taken out four red capsules which she places on
the white table cloth of her little table.
There is a candle burning in a holder, and other lamps also
light the apartment. She is dressed in sedate street clothes.
She sits at the table, and by the light of the candle proceeds
to open a black-covered book, and read it. The print is fine.
She bends over it a moment, looks up at the capsules, and
returns to the book. She seems quite at peace. Stella and
Jeff are heard over:
STELLA
I wonder.
JEFF
What?
STELLA
Miss Lonely Hearts just laid out
something that looks like sodium
trieckonal capsules.
JEFF
You can tell that from here?
STELLA
I handled enough of those red pills
to put everybody in New Jersey asleep
for the winter.
JEFF
Would four of them -- ?
STELLA
(Breaks in)
No -- but it makes the rest easy to
take. And she's reading the Bible.
JEFF
(After a slight pause)
Then I wouldn't worry too much. But
let's keep an eye on her.
Thorwald has the new alligator bag belonging to his wife, in
his hand. He moves slowly across the bedroom, out of sight
behind the door. He doesn't appear in the living room. In a
moment he reappears, moving back to his packing. He puts the
handbag into one of the suitcases -- the one which he has
almost completed filling. He goes on with his packing.
Thorwald's apartment. He comes out of the bedroom toward the
phone. He wears a light summer coat and tie, despite the
heat. In the bedroom, everything is packed with the exception
of one open suitcase. We see another suitcase, his sample
case, and a couple of topcoats across the bed. He approaches
the phone hesitantly, undecided whether or not to answer it.
JEFF
(Off, half-aloud)
Go ahead, Thorwald -- pick it up.
You're curious. You wonder if it's
your girl friend calling. The one
you killed for. Pick it up, Thorwald!
Quickly Thorwald does pick it up.
THORWALD
(Cautiously, on filter)
Hello.
JEFF
(Off)
Did you get my note?
There is a pause as Thorwald gropes for an answer. We can
almost hear his breathing.
JEFF
Well -- did you get it, Thorwald?
THORWALD
Who are you?
JEFF
I'll give you a chance to find out.
Meet me in the bar at the Brevoort --
and do it right away.
THORWALD
Why should I?
JEFF
For a little business meeting -- to
settle the estate of your late wife.
THORWALD
(After a pause)
I don't know what you mean.
JEFF
(Firmly)
Now stop wasting time, Thorwald, or
I'll hang up and call the police.
THORWALD
(Breathing heavily)
I only have a hundred dollars or so.
JEFF
That's a start. I'm at the Brevoort
now. I'll be looking for you.
He hangs up before Thorwald can reply. Thorwald looks at the
receiver a moment, then he slowly hangs up. He stands at the
phone thinking. He doesn't suspect he is being watched through
the window. Then he makes up his mind and starts for the
door. After he goes out he tests the door to make certain it
is locked.
LISA
(Over)
Let's go, Stella.
Thorwald goes past the alley opening.
Lisa is in the courtyard directly below Jeff's window.
She has reached the stairway leading up and to the right.
She looks, waves at Jeff as Stella comes up to her carrying
a shovel. The two women hurry up the stairs toward the iron
ladder they will use to climb the wall between Jeff's yard
and that of Thorwald's.
Lisa has climbed over the wall and is helping Stella down
into Thorwald's yard. The shovel is lying on the ground beside
Lisa. Jeff's conversation continues over the action of the
two women.
BABY SITTER
This is the baby sitter.
JEFF
Oh. When are they expected home?
BABY SITTER
I'm hired 'til one. They went to
dinner and maybe night-clubbing.
JEFF
Well, if he calls in, tell him to
get in touch with L. B. Jefferies
right away. I might have quite a
surprise for him.
BABY SITTER
Does he have your number, Mr.
Jefferies?
JEFF
He has it. Thank you.
BABY SITTER
Goodnight.
Jeff hangs up. Stella is now beginning to dig, carefully
lifting the flowers off the center of the bed where they had
dipped down. She places the flower plants on the sidewalk.
Lisa stands facing Jeff's window and occasionally glances
over her shoulder uneasily at Stella's work.
At this moment, the sounds of musical instruments begin to
be heard from the songwriter's apartment.
In the songwriter's apartment, several of his musician friends
have gathered. One plays a guitar, another a clarinet, and
so on. One by one they try out the theme of the songwriter's
new melody, running through it in turn to become familiar
with the notes. We, therefore, hear the melody played
informally in different ways with different instruments.
Stella is busy, expertly handling the shovel. Lisa has her
back to the nurse, but looks apprehensively over her shoulder.
She then looks up toward Jeff's apartment.
Miss Lonely Hearts is sitting on the sofa, writing a note
with a pad on her knee. Next to her, on the table, the pills
are still in evidence.
The alleyway and street intersection, with normal night
traffic, but no sign of Thorwald. THE CAMERA LENS PANS across
and down to the hole being dug by Stella. We get an impression
of Lisa's legs as we go by. The spade comes out of the hole
and rests on the side. THE CAMERA LENS PANS up just in time
to catch Stella turning up to Jeff. She throws out a helpless
hand and shakes her head. "Nothing."
Lisa glances up to Thorwald's apartment. She turns and
gestures some instructions to Stella. Then she looks up at
Jeff and gestures her intention to enter Thorwald's apartment.
She turns and dashes toward Thorwald's fire escape as Stella
makes a fruitless grab to restrain her.
While Lisa starts up the fire escape, we see Stella running
toward the wall in the foreground to climb over it. Stella
has abandoned the shovel and left the flowers and dirt strewn
over the walk.
Lisa climbs the fire escape to the second floor and the
outside of Thorwald's apartment.
She tries, unsuccessfully, to get through the window which
opens into the kitchen from the fire escape. And then, with
some difficulty, stretches and succeeds in getting in through
the living room window, which is open. She goes directly to
the bedroom and we see her bending over one of the suitcases.
Lisa turns from the suitcase with the alligator handbag in
her hand. There is an expression of triumph on her face. She
opens it and her expression changes to dismay. She looks
toward Jeff's apartment and, to communicate her dismay, she
turns the handbag upside down. Nothing falls out. Empty.
Lisa has dropped the bag on the bed and is now looking around
the bedroom, looking for some place to start searching for
the jewelry. She moves quickly to the dresser and begins
opening the drawers to check them.
She finds nothing.
Miss Lonely Hearts is in the act of popping an envelope up
against the table lamp on the table next to the sofa.
From the same table, she takes a pill bottle and empties the
contents into her left hand. Replacing the bottle, she picks
up a glass of water.
STELLA
(Off)
Call the police!
We hear the sound of the receiver picked up, and Jeff starting
to dial New York Police. At this moment, from the song-
writer's apartment which has been quiet for a while, comes a
new burst of melody. It is the melody which the song-writer
has been composing during the past few days. Now it is rich,
and full, and completed, as the musical group plays it. Miss
Lonely Hearts lifts her head to listen, and slowly lowers
the pills and glass of water into her lap, her whole purpose
arrested by the beauty of what she hears.
A quick flash of the song-writer's apartment, and his musical
group gathered around the piano.
STELLA
Maybe that music will delay her taking
the pills.
At the bottom of the picture, Miss Lonely Hearts is still
listening to the music, while in the apartment above Lisa
appears into the living room from behind the doorway that
leads to the bedroom. She looks across to the source of the
music. She is as arrested by the melody as Miss Lonely Hearts.
Then looking across to Jeff, she holds up her hands
triumphantly to show him the jewelry she has discovered. At
this point, Thorwald appears coming along the corridor of
his apartment house! Lisa is completely unaware of his
approach.
Thorwald at the door, unlocking it with his key. We see that
Lisa has heard the sound, and looks toward the door, all but
frozen with alarm. The Policeman on the phone repeats with
studied irritation:
POLICE
Precinct Six -- Sergeant Allgood.
Lisa dashes back into the bedroom just in time to avoid being
seen by Thorwald as he opens the door and enters the
apartment.
Thorwald crosses the living room, and goes into the bedroom.
Suddenly he looks onto the bed. He picks up the open alligator
handbag. He turns, facing the window, looking down at the
bag. He looks up in the direction of the living room. Then
suddenly his whole frame stiffens, his head turns a little
further around to his right. He is looking directly at Lisa
who is out of our sight in the corner of the bedroom. He
holds out the bag, and without moving, starts to question
the unseen Lisa. He takes a little step forward, and his
head begins to turn slightly to the left as Lisa begins to
emerge into the living room, backing away slowly. By her
gestures, and nervous laughter, she appears to be offering a
lame excuse for being found in his apartment.
He comes towards her, and enters the living room as well.
Lisa edging toward the door, points to it as she apparently
argues with him as to the way she came in.
He points to the window. She makes one more step toward the
door, but Thorwald reaches out quickly and grabs her by the
wrist. He twists it brutally, and flings her sideways into
the sofa beneath the window. Her head snaps back against the
head rest. With his right hand he throws the handbag across
the room in anger, and with his left open-palmed he demands
something from Lisa.
Slowly her right hand comes up and opens.
He takes the jewelry from her, looks at it for a surprised
moment, puts it into his coat pocket. He reaches down with
both hands, and by the wrists jerks her to her feet. He is
talking viciously to her. We can hear Lisa calling out
faintly: "Jeff! Jeff!"
Thorwald suddenly looks out at the neighborhood. He realizes
that somebody might be watching him. He drags her across the
room, reaches up with one arm, and the lights go off. The
faint light from the bedroom illuminates their struggle, but
not clearly.
Two policemen move quickly and professionally up the corridor
toward Thorwald's apartment. They stop at the door, listen a
moment, and then push the buzzer insistently. Inside the
apartment, lights go on, and Thorwald is in the center of
the room looking toward the door. Lisa staggers away from
him, trying to rearrange her clothes and her hair. She is as
surprised at the interruption as Thorwald. He listens, looks
back questioningly toward Lisa, then goes to the door. He
passes into the kitchen.
After a moment's hesitation, Thorwald goes to the door and
opens it.
Thorwald's head and shoulders fill the screen. For a moment
Thorwald is genuinely frightened by the sight of the police.
We see him listening to the policeman out of the picture.
Thorwald turns slowly and we see him lose much of his fright
and regain some control of his face. He completes his turn
and is looking at the girl a little puzzled. He then swings
back toward the police.
Thorwald is displaying indignation and complaint to the police
as he nods his head vigorously toward Lisa. At this the police
start to advance into the apartment, going directly for Lisa.
She flashes a quick look toward Jeff's window. She turns
back as the first policeman reaches her. He starts to question
her.
We see Lisa start to excuse her presence in the same manner
she used with Thorwald previously, as if to say she came
into the apartment by mistake. Thorwald, listening, comes
quickly forward to contradict her, vigorously. He holds out
the jewelry in his hand, and then picks up and shows the
empty handbag. The policeman, impressed, looks back to Lisa
for an explanation. She has none. Over this we hear Stella
frantically asking:
STELLA
What's she trying to do? Why doesn't
she turn him in?
JEFF
Smart girl.
STELLA
Smart? She'll be arrested!
JEFF
That'll get her out of there, won't
it?
The first policeman indicates that Lisa is to come along
with him. He pauses momentarily to tell the second policeman
to take a statement from Thorwald about the attempted
burglary. The second policeman reaches for the jewelry in
Thorwald's hand, and takes it for examination. In the brief
pause while the two policemen speak to each other, Lisa starts
to wave her left hand behind her back.
We get a closer view of the waving hand. She stops waving
and holds her fingers spread out. With her other hand she
points to the wedding ring on her left hand.
STELLA
Mrs. Thorwald's ring!
THE LENS PANS UPWARD AND ACROSS until it brings Thorwald's
profile into the picture. He is looking down directly at
Lisa's hands. His head slowly turns, and he looks right up --
directly into the lens. Suddenly he becomes aware that Lisa
is signaling to someone who is watching him.
As Thorwald's attention is drawn back to the second policeman
to answer further questions, the first policeman takes Lisa
by the arm and leads her out of the apartment. He goes down
the corridor pushing the curious people away from the door.
We see Thorwald leave his apartment and proceed down the
corridor.
JEFF
Just don't dally. Thorwald knows
he's being watched. He won't hang
around long.
DOYLE
If that ring checks out, we'll give
him an escort. So long.
He hangs up, and just as he does, Jeff looks toward Thorwald's
apartment. He rolls forward to the window.
He seems a little puzzled by what he sees.
Thorwald's apartment. Completely dark. No movement, or glow
of a cigar. The corridor outside lighted, but empty.
Miss Lonely Hearts is standing in the yard outside her
apartment, looking up to the porch of Miss Torso. The ballet
dancer is in high heels and a fresh summer dress.
MISS TORSO
(Faintly heard)
Have you heard that song he's been
writing?
She indicates the song-writer's apartment. Miss Lonely Hearts
turns, looks up at the studio apartment a moment, then looks
up at Miss Torso.
MISS LONELY HEARTS
(Nods yes)
I'm glad I was here when he played
it.
Doyle, Lisa, Stella and the two detectives, crossing
Thorwald's yard, see Jeff going out the window. Lisa is
panicked.
LISA
Jeff! Jeff!
From Doyle's viewpoint, Jeff hanging out the window and
Thorwald hammering at his hands and arms with bare fists.
Doyle pushes Lisa to one side and starts to scale the wall,
preceded by the two detectives.
Looking down on Jeff's face, showing his strain and the pain
of Thorwald's attack. The brick floor of the patio seems a
hundred feet below.
Doyle pulling himself to the top of the wall. Lisa, Stella
and the two men below, looking up. Lisa is white-faced and
frightened.
Doyle reaches the top of the wall, looks up at Jeff.
Jeff, as seen from Doyle's angle, hanging, somehow weathering
Thorwald's insane attack.
Doyle reaches for his service revolver. He doesn't have it!
He looks down, and calls one of the detectives back.
DOYLE
Creel! Your Thirty-eight!
Looking down at the two detectives from Doyle's point of
view. Creel grabs for his gun expertly. The holster breaks
away. It is in his hand and with a deft movement he tosses
it upward.
Doyle catches it, turns up to Jeff's apartment.
Shooting over Doyle's shoulder as he steadies himself against
the wall, lifting the service revolver up for a shot at
Thorwald. His aim is careful, slow, painfully deliberate.
Jeff seems about to fall.
The two detectives ahead of Doyle are moving up below the
window. Lisa stand looking up, her hands at the sides of her
head, frozen with panic.
Two detectives appear behind Thorwald and grab him. The
startled Thorwald stops his attack on Jeff as he looks wildly
around to find the source of his new attack.
Jeff, hanging from the window frame. He claws desperately
for a hold.
People rush to their windows, looking out at the excitement.
Some people on the ground floor come out into the yard. Doyle
and the two detectives come into the patio beneath Jeff.
Doyle directs them to improvise something to break Jeff's
fall -- leaves, greenery, their coats, cushions from the
patio furniture -- anything they can find. The four uniformed
policemen rush into the backyard. Lisa and Stella come over
the wall into the patio beneath Jeff. They look up at Jeff,
encouraging him to hold on.
A detective goes into Jeff's cellar door, trying to reach
his apartment before Jeff loses his grip.
The siffleuse and her husband are standing on the fire escape
in plain, almost somber clothes. They watch expressionlessly.
Beneath them the empty basket which once held their dog swings
silently in the night air.
Jeff, hanging from his windowsill. He loses his grip and
plunges down into the patio below. Two detectives throw
themselves beneath him. They are knocked to the ground as
Jeff's fall tumbles both of them. After Jeff hits, he lies
still, twisted over to one side.
Doyle and Lisa rush over to Jeff. There is an audible
SOUND of shock in the neighborhood as Jeff has fallen --
various oh's, ah's, and possibly a stifled scream or two.
Lisa kneels down, cradles Jeff's head in her lap. There are
tears in her eyes. Her clothes are disheveled and her dress
torn. Her hair is disarranged. But withal, her face is as
beautiful as ever, with love.
LISA
Jeff -- Jeff darling!
He opens his eyes. Winces with pain.
LISA
(To the detectives)
Get an ambulance.
(Down to Jeff)
Don't move. Try to lie still.
JEFF
Lisa -- I -- I -- can't tell you how
scared I was that you -- you might --
LISA
(Affectionately)
Shut up. I'm all right.
JEFF
(To Doyle)
Think you've got enough for a search
warrant now?
DOYLE
Oh sure. Sure. I can make it.
At that moment, a man appears leaning out of Jeff's window.
He looks down to the patio.
DETECTIVE
Lieutenant Doyle?
DOYLE (OFF)
(Looking up)
Yeah?
DETECTIVE
Thorwald's ready to take us on a
tour of the East River.
Stella tugs at Doyle's arm and stands on tiptoe to whisper
something into his ear. Doyle then looks up to the detective.
DOYLE
Did he say what was buried in the
flower bed?
DETECTIVE
Yeah. It's over in his apartment. In
a hat box. Wanna look?
Doyle turns quizzically at Stella.
STELLA
Oh, no thanks -- I don't want any of
part of her
(She pauses, then
does a surprised
take back to Doyle)
What did I say?
DISSOLVE TO:
Beginning on Jeff's window thermometer, the CAMERA PANS FROM
RIGHT TO LEFT around the neighborhood.
In the songwriter's apartment we see the songwriter with a
guest -- Miss Lonely Hearts. Both in dress and manner she
seems quite happy and adjusted to life. The songwriter is
placing the first recording of his new song on a record player
for her to hear. It is a full symphonic arrangement which is
heard over.
CONTINUE TO PAN
Thorwald's apartment is empty, stripped of its furnishings.
Two painters are repainting the walls.
The siffleuse and her husband are on their fire escape,
training a new white dog to ride in their basket.
Miss Torso is practicing her ballet again. She wears a white
leotard. The sound of someone at the door interrupts her.
She goes to the door, opens it an inch or two cautiously.
When she sees who is outside, she throws open the door. An
innocuous, unhandsome and somewhat shy army private enters
with a barracks bag slung over one shoulder. She kisses him
fondly after closing the door. He puts down the barracks
bag, tosses his hat into a chair and, with the attitude of a
man who belongs there, goes to the icebox to see what's to
eat.
The newlyweds are arguing.
The CAMERA PANS past Jeff who is asleep in his wheelchair
facing away from the window. CAMERA MOVES DOWN to the lower
part of his body and we see that both his legs are now in
casts. The CAMERA LIFTS SLIGHTLY to show Lisa sitting on the
sofa nearby. She wears Levis and a plaid cotton shirt. She
is reading a book on travel. She looks up briefly at Jeff.
When she realizes he is asleep, she puts down the travel
book and reaches for the latest copy of Harper's Bazaar. She
settles down to study it as we
FADE OUT:
THE END
Rear Window
Writers : Cornell WoolrichJohn Michael Hayes
Genres : ThrillerMystery
User Comments
Back to IMSDb