A series of fast-cut static scenes of empty streets.
DAVID
(VOICE-OVER)
This could have been any city: they're all the same.
A rapid, swerving track along deserted streets and down narrow
lanes and passageways. Accompanied by soundtrack and credits.
The track ends outside a solid, fashionable Edinburgh tenement.
At a cash dispenser a man in his thrities is taking out some
money.
A younger man, Andy, stands besdie him, looking around in a
mildly agitated fashion.
As the money emerges, Andy assaults and robs the man. He starts
by smashinf the victim's face repeatedly against the cash
dispenser until the Perspex is smeared with blood. When he has
final finished and the man lies on the ground, Andy takes the
money and the card from the slots, then gets into a car which has
pulled up alongside, driven by Tim.
Late at night, in a quiet lane at the back of the flat, a hired
Ford Transit is parked.
The back yard and back door of the flats. The door opens and
Alex, David and Juliet emerge, carrying the corpse out towards
the van.
Through the darkness we hear an engine, then the headlights of
the van come into view.
It pulls off the track onto a patch of grass. The engine is
switched off but the light remains on. The trio descend from the
van.
In fron of the van, Alex, illuminated by its lights, Alex, David
and Juliet stand together. Alex is showing them two long stems of
grass and one short one. He encloses them in his fist and holds
them out.
ALEX
All right, then, here we are and this is it. Do you want to play
or not?
Alex holds his hand out towards Juliet, who takes the tip of one
of the stems. It is one of the larger ones.
Alex and Juliet turn to David. Alex holds out the stems. David
reaches out and takes one of the tips. It is the short straw.
DAVID
I can't do it.
Deeper in the forest, with the headlamps still casting a little
light throught the trees, we see David's head and shoulders. His
right arm is moving briskly back and forth accompanied by a
vicious sawing noise. The sawing stops as he evidently finished
with one extremity. He shuffles back and starts sawing at
another.
Alex leans against the spade in a shallow pit that he has dug. He
observes David impassively. The sawing stops again.
DAVID
Finished.
ALEX
But not quite.
DAVID
Is that going to be deep enough?
Alex bends down to pick up the hammer, which he holds out towards
David.
ALEX
Don't you worry about that.
DAVID
Is this necessary?
ALEX
Yes. Now come on, all or nothing.
Most reluctantly, David takes the hammer and looks at Alex, who
gestures as if to say, "On you go.' With revulsion on his face,
he raises the hammer above his head.
Alex pushes a blue car into a quary.
In a scene similar to the dismemberment of Hugo, we see David's
shoulders as he saws back and forth at something unseen. He stops
and reaches out for the hammer, picks it up and raises it above
his head.
The van is silhouetted against a rising sun.
Establishing shot of Alex and Juliet in garden.
ALEX
No, definitely not. And that's that. I refuse to discuss it
further.
JULIET
It's the only way.
ALEX
I refuse.
JULIET
You're frightened.
ALEX
No, I'm not frightened. A little terrified maybe. Did you see
what happened to the last two who tried that? They went up alive
and they came down dead -- the difference, I mean, alive dead
dead alive, that sort of thing. It wasn't difficult to spot. He
killed them both: he cut them up.
Several police and unmarked vehicles, including one mobile
incident room', stand on a rough track. Another car arrives at
the end and is parkeed to one side. Alex steps out.
From where he stands, Alex can see towards the site of the
burials. There are a few policemen, uniformed and plain-clothes,
and a small knot of journalists, kept at bay by plastic tape
draped from tree to tree. Mounds of earth mark the site of the
exhumations.
Alex walks past the other journalists into the woods. He looks
back towards the sight, then turns to look in the opposite
direction. He finds himself at the edge of a golf course. From
the green to the graves is hardly any distance.
To one side, Alex sees McCall and Mitchell, hunched in earnest
discussion. Mitchell looks up briefly and ctaches Alex's eye.
Alex walks away from the incident room towards his car. He breaks
into a run for a few paces.
The noise of the sawing continues.
As he reaches his car, Alex fumbles in his pockets for his keys.
He is sweating and trembling. He drops his keys. As he bends down
to pick them up, his foot slips on the wet grass. He falls to his
knees, his forehead banging against the car door. He kneels for a
moment, gripping the keys, his head resting against the door.
The noise of the sawing stops.
From behind, the arm of a Police Constable reaches out and his
hand rests on Alex's shoulder.
THE END
Shallow Grave
Writers : John Hodge
Genres : ComedyCrimeDramaThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb