Starliner Towers is seen in LS through the windshield of a
moving car. The car approaches the complex and stops near
the main doors of the West Tower.
Out of the car climb Kresimir and Benda Sviben, a gawky newly
wed young couple. Kresimir elaborately opens the door for
Benda, his new wife, and they walk with hands intertwined up
the steps of the West Tower.
Tudor hangs on to the railing of the narrow concrete balcony,
gulping down the air, scanning the lights of the tower
opposite.
Suddenly the muscles of his neck go tense again, his mouth
seems to gape open at the extreme limits imposed by muscle
and jawbone, his hands fly up to his mouth in an attempt to
keep down whatever is about to come up.
Hanging over the railing of the balcony like an ocean traveler
in a rough sea, Tudor finally gives up the struggle and hangs
on for dear life as he retches, gags, moans, and finally
vomits.
Two elderly women, Vi and Olive, are taking a leisurely
evening stroll at the base of Tudor's tower. They both hold
small transparent umbrellas over their heads and walk gingerly
along the path bordering the lawn.
Suddenly the liquid, fleshy thwack of the parasite vomited
by Tudor from high above hitting one of the umbrellas is
heard. A large splotch of blood spatters the first lady's
umbrella just off center, as though it has been hit by a
heavy, blood-soaked sponge. The force of the blow almost
twists the umbrella from the first lady's frail hand, and
she gives a little cry of surprise.
Her companion extends a hand to help the first lady keep her
balance, then gives a slightly more startled cry when she
sees the blood.
The first lady examines her umbrella as well, but does not
react with such surprise.
FIRST LADY
(examining the bloodied
umbrella)
Aw. Poor birdie. They're always
crashing into tall buildings. It's
such a shame, such a shame. The
windows fool them, you know.
The creature, the second parasite to emerge from Tudor's
body, lies in the grass, away from the bright cones of light
thrown by the tower's lawn lamps. We can barely make out its
bloody, twitching form.
Beyond the parasite is a basement window through which is
visible a large laundry room complete with washers and dryers.
The window has been propped open a couple of inches by a bar
of laundry soap.
The first lady makes a move to find the injured creature,
but her companion tightens her grip on the old lady's arm.
COMPANION
Come along, Olive.
FIRST LADY
Oh, Vi! Maybe the poor thing's just
been hurt. Maybe we should look for
him!
COMPANION
(pulling Olive along)
Don't be silly, dear. It's in heaven
now, whatever it is. Won't help at
all for you to get into a fuss and
muddle over it. Now come along and
let's finish up our little evening
stroll and get you tucked up in bed
in front of the color TV.
The two women walk off down the path, Vi's voice fading away
in the shadows.
COMPANION
You know what a restless night you
have if you don't get your two hours
of color TV, dear, so let's bustle
along and get our walk over with,
shall we...?
Rollo gets into his car, which is parked in a now empty
parking lot adjacent to the building in which his lab is
situated. His car is large and American and ostentatious, a
gold Cadillac Eldorado with options or equivalent.
The car pulls out of the lot and on to the street.
Rollo's car pulls up to the main doors and parks in a
blatantly illegal space. He flips up a card on the dash which
says 'M.D. ON CALL,' then gets out of the car.
He walks up the steps and through the main doors, which are
wide open. Nobody is in sight.
The garage doors slide open. One car surges up the ramp ahead
of all the others, stopping at the top.
The driver of this first car is St. Luc, sleek and exuberant,
a raised collar and a scarf hiding most of his scars. He
glances into his rear-view mirror.
In the rear-view mirror, St. Luc sees all the other cars
lining up behind him, lights blazing.
St. Luc smiles, then steps on the accelerator. His car shoots
out into the street.
As St. Luc's car turns on to the street, car after car follows
him. We rise higher and higher above the Starliner Towers
apartment complex until the cars are a small stream of lights
far below, bleeding into the main body of the neon-lit
metropolis.
THE END
Shivers
Writers : David Cronenberg
Genres : HorrorSci-Fi
User Comments
Back to IMSDb