Crawford is watching a group of trainees on the firing range,
as Clarice joins him. He looks tired, haunted. Between master
and student, we sense a subtle, muted tug of sexuality.
CRAWFORD
Starling, Clarice M., good morning.
CLARICE
Good morning, Mr. Crawford.
CRAWFORD
Your instructors tell me you're doing
well. Top quarter of the class.
CLARICE
I hope so. They haven't posted
anything.
CRAWFORD
A job's come up and I thought about
you. Not really a job, more of - an
interesting errand. Walk me to my
car, Starling.
They begin to cross the academy grounds. A group of trainees
jogs by, in matching sweats, following a p.e. coach.
CRAWFORD
We're trying to interview all of the
serial killers now in custody, for a
psychobehavioral profile. Could be a
big help in unsolved cases. Most of
them have been happy to talk to us.
They have a compulsion to boast,
these people... Do you spook easily,
Starling?
CLARICE
Not yet.
CRAWFORD
You see, the one we want most refuses
to cooperate. I want you to go after
him again today, in the asylum.
CLARICE
Who's the subject?
CRAWFORD
The psychiatrist - Dr. Hannibal
Lecter.
Clarice stops walking, goes very still. A beat.
CLARICE
The cannibal...
Crawford doesn't respond, except to study her face.
CLARICE
Yes, well... Okay, right. I'm glad
for the chance, sir, but - why me?
CRAWFORD
You're qualified and available. And
frankly, I can't spare a real agent
right now.
He walks on again, at a faster clip. She hurried to keep up.
CRAWFORD
I don't expect him to talk to you,
but I have to be able to say we
tried... Lecter was a brilliant
psychiatrist, and he knows all the
dodges.
(hands her the manila
envelope)
Dossier on him, copy of our
questionnaire, special ID for you...
If he won't talk, then I want straight
reporting. How's he look, how's his
cell look, what's he writing? The
Director himself will see your report,
over your own signature - if I decide
it's good enough. I want that by
0800 Wednesday, and keep this to
yourself.
They're reached his car. His driver stamps on a cigarette,
climbs in behind the wheel. BURROUGHS, his assistant, says
something into a walkie-talkie, then opens the back door.
But Crawford pulls her aside, a hand on her shoulder. His
intensity is scary.
CRAWFORD
Now. I want your full attention,
Starling. Are you listening to me?
CLARICE
Yes sir.
CRAWFORD
Be very careful with Hannibal Lecter.
Dr. Chilton at the asylum will go
over the physical procedures used
with him. Do not deviate from them,
for any reason. You tell him nothing
personal, Starling. Believe me, you
don't want Hannibal Lecter inside
your head... Just do your job, but
never forget what he is.
CLARICE
(a bit unnerved)
And what is that, sir?
CHILTON (V.O.)
Oh, he's a monster. A pure
psychopath...
CUT TO:
The grim gothic pile of the asylum looms overhead as Clarice
rushes out the front doors. She is badly shaken, almost
stumbling, as she rubs at her face. She looks around for,
and finally, with some relief, spots -
HER CAR
an old Pinto, parked nearby. This image begins to BLUR...
CLOSE ON
her face, fighting tears, as the CAMERA begins to WHIRL AROUND
her, almost dizzily. She is seeing, in her mind's eye -
IN FLASHBACK
a screen door banging open, on a wooden porch, and a 10-year
old girl - the young Clarice - rushing outside, down the
front steps, and running joyfully across her front yard to -
MOVING ANGLE - THE GIRL'S POV
a car - late 60's vintage - parked in the dirt road. A MAN,
Clarice's father, is just climbing out. He's tall, handsome,
and has a marshal's badge pinned on his dark suit. He grins,
seeing her, and spreads his arms wide as...
THE YOUNG CLARICE
rushes into them, and he sweeps her up in a hug, spinning
her around, the CAMERA SPINNING with them, and capturing
both their laughing faces, before we abruptly return to -
THE ADULT CLARICE
alone in the parking lot, sagging against her car. Her face
is buried in her arms, she shoulders shaking. SOUND UPCUT -
a steady, rapid series of GUNSHOTS, as we
CUT TO:
An orange neon sign, streaked with rain, identifies out
location. It looms over a hurricane fence, topped with barbed
wire. Inside, row on row of garage-sized, cinderblock sheds.
MR. YOW (V.O.)
Unit 31 was leased for ten years.
Pre-paid in full... The contract is
in the name of "Miss Hester Mofet."
CUT TO:
Clarice, kneeling before a closed, roll-up metal door, takes
a FLASH photo of its sealed padlock. EVERETT YOW, a fat,
60ish Chinaman, holds an umbrella over them both. He looks
unhappy.
CLARICE
So no one's been in here since -
1980?
She opens the padlock, using a fat ring of tagged keys, then
sets aside both keys and lock.
MR. YOW
Not to my knowledge. Privacy is a
great concern to my customers. But,
if you say this is an FBI matter...
CLARICE
I won't disturb anything, Mr. Yow, I
promise. Be gone before you know it.
Slinging her camera over a shoulder, she tugs at the handle,
but the door won't budge. Another tug, harder - no good. Mr.
Yow stoops to help, puffing hard, but it's firmly stuck. He
sighs.
MR. YOW
We could return tomorrow, with my
son. Or perhaps some workmen...?
Clarice crosses to her Pinto, which faces the shed, reaches
in to turn on her headlights. Mr. Yow blinks in the sudden
brightness. Then she opens her truck, rummaging inside, and
returns with a bumper jack, a flashlight, and a rubber floor
mat.
CLARICE
Would you hold these, please?
She gives him her flashlight and camera, drops the mat on
the ground, then sets the bumper jack in place, under the
center of the door. She pumps on the jack handle as the door
SQUEALS slowly up, but it won't go higher than about 18
inches, despite all her exertions. She spreads out the rubber
mat on the cement, takes the flashlight from Mr. Yow, then
lies on the mat.
CUT TO:
Clarice pulls her head back out again, reaching to take her
camera from him. She hands him a card, trying to appear
nonchalant.
CLARICE
Mr. Yow, if this door should fall
down -ha ha! - or anything else -
would you be kind enough to call
this number? It's our Baltimore field
office. They know you're here with
me... Do you understand?
MR. YOW
Might I suggest tucking your pants
into your socks? To prevent mouse
intrusion.
CLARICE
(beat)
Good idea.
CUT BACK TO:
A loud clap of THUNDER, as a flash of LIGHTNING illuminates
the eerie towers and barred windows of the asylum.
MOVING ANGLE on Clarice as she climbs from her car, runs
through heavy rain towards the main entrance, where a guard
admits her.
CUT TO:
Catherine straightens, with her bag of groceries, shutting
her car's back door. She sees, a short distance away -
A MAN
standing at the open rear door of a brown panel truck. His
right forearm is in a cast and sling; he is struggling,
unsuccessfully, to hoist an armchair into the truck. Parked
nearby, other cars, RVs, a boat on a trailer. A thin, breast-
high fog fills the lot; arc lights make yellow pools.
Catherine hesitates, then crosses towards the man.
CATHERINE
Help you with that?
MAN
Would you? Thanks.
His voice is odd, strained, very soft. A fog lamp, set on
end on the ground, distorts his features from below. We can't
get a good glimpse of his face, but his body is plump, above
average height; he's in his mid 30's. She sets down the bag,
then together they easily lift the chair into the truck.
MAN (O.S.)
Let's slide it up, you mind?
CUT TO:
LOW ANGLE - CLOSE - on Catherine's grocery bag, as her blouse
is tossed out beside it. SOUND of the truck's motor starting.
The truck backs up, one rear wheel knocking over the bag,
partly squashing it. Then is drives away, taillights
shrinking, as a lone orange rolls slowly away from the bag...
DISSOLVE TO:
SOUND of organ music, as Clarice, carrying her fingerprint
kit, mounts some steps to the sidewalk. She stops, seeing -
COUNTRY PEOPLE
in their somber best, filing into the mortuary for a service.
The music - "Shall We Gather At The River?" - is issuing
from the open double doors. Several of the mourners glance
over at her curiously.
ANGLE ON CLARICE
staring back at the mourners, hearing the music, as a sense
memory is triggered in her...
IN FLASHBACK - LOW ANGLE, MOVING
as we approach, down the aisle of a country chapel, an open
wooden coffin. Sad country faces turn, looking at us from
the flanking pews. The b.g. organ hymn is "Shall We
Gather...?"
THE SAD, 10 YEAR-OLD CLARICE
in her best dress, is reluctantly approaching the casket.
Her hands are held by the plump hands of unseen matrons.
CHILD'S POV
on the looming coffin... closer and closer... until finally
she can see, lying inside it... her dead father, arms folded,
his marshal's badge still pinned to his lapel.
CRAWFORD (V.O.)
Starling...?
NEW ANGLE (PRESENT DAY)
as the grownup Clarice turns towards the impatient Crawford.
Like her, he carries a large case.
CRAWFORD
We're around back.
CUT TO:
Clarice sits outside, with her head on her knees, drained.
She looks up wanly as Lamar appears, offers her a can of
Coke.
CLARICE
Thanks, I'm not thirsty.
LAMAR
No, hold it under your chin, there,
and on your temples. Cold'll make
you feel better. It does me.
She smiles, touched, and takes the can. When Lamar sees
Crawford coming outside, he tactfully departs. Crawford sits
beside her; there's a brief silence. She soothes herself
with the can.
CRAWFORD
When I told that sheriff we shouldn't
talk in front of a woman, that really
burned you, didn't it?
(she is silent)
That was just smoke, Starling, I had
to get rid of him. You did well in
there.
CLARICE
It matters, Mr. Crawford... Other
cops know who you are. They look at
you to see how to act... It matters.
CRAWFORD
(beat)
Point taken.
She looks at him a moment, then offers the can. He opens it.
CRAWFORD
When we get back, I want you to run
that bug by the Smithsonian, see if
they can identify it. Maybe it's got
some limited range, or it only breeds
at certain times of year... You found
it, Starling, you deserve the credit.
CLARICE
I'm wondering if he's done that before -
placed a cocoon, or an insect. It
would be easy to miss in an autopsy,
especially with a floater... Can we
check back on that?
CRAWFORD
(shakes his head)
The other girls are in the ground.
Exhumations are upsetting for the
families. I'll do it if I have to,
but -
CLARICE
Then have the lab check Raspail's
head.
(he looks at her)
Dr. Lecter's patient - have them
probe his soft-palette tissues...
They'll find another cocoon.
CRAWFORD
You seem pretty sure of that.
CLARICE
Raspail was killed by the same man
who's killing these girls. And Lecter
knows him. Maybe even treated him...
You think so, too, don't you? Or
you'd never have sent me to that
asylum.
He looks at her for a moment, then sips again.
CRAWFORD
Before we caught him, Lecter had a
big psychiatric practice in Baltimore.
But he traveled all over the country -
teaching, consulting... Christ, even
testifying in murder trials. Who
knows how many potential psychos he
turned loose, just for the fun of
it...?
DISSOLVE TO:
The massive Victorian building looms over Constitution Avenue.
Clarice quickly mounts the steps, carrying a small plastic
box.
CRAWFORD
I don't think he knew that she's a
Senator's child. She's a big girl,
Starling, like all the rest. We're
going on the theory she was randomly
targeted by size...
CUT TO:
An awesome armada of police vehicles swings through an
intersection, while normal traffic is held back by highway
patrol cruisers.
The lead cars turn off, hit the entrance ramp to the freeway -
SIRENS going, tires SQUEALING, red flashers...
CLOSER ANGLE
on a speeding surveillance van, with long antennas and a
small satellite dish, near the head of the motorcade.
CRAWFORD (V.O.)
Maybe we can trace how he buys the
bugs, starting with U.S. Customs...
CUT TO:
MOVING ANGLE on Clarice and Crawford, as they walk along a
sidewalk, sipping from paper cups. The surveillance van trails
them slowly, radios CRACKLING.
CLARICE
Are you in trouble over this, Mr.
Crawford? Can Senator Martin do
something to you?
CRAWFORD
I'm 53, Starling. If I found Jimmy
Hoffa on national TV, I'd still have
to retire in two years. It's not a
consideration. But you are...
(beat)
You've done enough. If I keep you
out of school any longer, you'll be
recycled. Cost you six months, at
least. I can guarantee you readmission
here, but that's about it.
(he stops, looks at
her)
Now's your chance, Starling. Go back
to class. Leave Bill to me.
CLARICE
If you didn't want me chasing him,
you shouldn't have taken me to that
funeral home.
He looks at her steadily, then nods. They walk on.
CLARICE
Lecter is still the key, I know he
is. Whatever he told me about Bill
is just as good now as it was before.
CRAWFORD
Or just as worthless. But I want you
in Memphis, close to him. Maybe when
he gets tired of toying with Senator
Martin, he'll talk to you again.
There's a plane waiting for you now
at the airstrip.
She smiles at this acknowledgment; he never thought she's
quit.
CLARICE
I lied to Lecter. I'll need some
kind of peace offering... Can I get
the drawings from his cell?
CRAWFORD
Good idea. Meantime, try to get a
feel for Catherine Martin. Her
apartment, her friends... how he
might've stalked her. I'm going to
the other two clinics, Minnesota and
Ohio.
(he crumples his cup,
tosses it)
Now's the hardest part, Starling.
Use your anger, don't let it keep
you from thinking. Just keep your
eyes on Catherine. We've got less
than 30 hours.
CLARICE
(hesitates)
Mr. Crawford... can those cops down
there handle Dr. Lecter?
CRAWFORD
(grimly)
They'll use their best men. But they
better be paying attention...
CUT TO:
The old courthouse is a massive Gothic stronghold, with an
armada of police cruisers parked at the curb.
Clarice climbs from her rented car, SLAMMING the door angrily.
Holding a rolled-up pile of papers - Dr. Lecter's drawings -
she starts determinedly up the steps. A nearby commotion
makes her pause.
Dr. Frederick Chilton in a sea of interviewers and mini-cams,
is preening grandly.
Clarice carefully avoiding his gaze, slips up the steps and
inside.
CUT TO:
VARIOUS ANGLES on a floodlit scene of barely controlled
pandemonium. Flashing red lights, men shouting commands,
SIRENS in the distance. SWAT members, in full gear, leap
from a black van... fan out... swarm up the steps... EMS
orderlies unload a gurney from an ambulance... Cops kneel
for cover behind cars, aiming guns and rifles up at the
windows...
CUT TO:
MOVING ANGLE on the EMS ambulance, as it races along normally,
its SIREN blazing, the heavy flow of traffic parting to make
way for it.
Then suddenly it begins to weave erratically, changing lanes,
before drifting dangerously to a full stop, almost side-ways.
Cars swerve to avoid hitting it, HONKING angrily...
CLOSER ANGLE
on the stopped ambulance. After a long, still moment, the
wind-shield wipes come on, incongruously, then stop. Then
the SIREN is shut OFF, and the flashers. The ambulance starts
rolling again - at first jerkingly, then with increasing
speed. We follow it for several more moments, until is passes -
and we LINGER on...
BIG GREEN INTERSTATE SIGN
...that reads "Memphis International Airport / 2 miles."
CLOSE ANGLE - THROUGH AMBULANCE WINDSHIELD
Dr. Lecter's face is slowly REVEALED, as he wipes across it
with a fistful of gauze, tossing it aside...
DISSOLVE TO:
MOVING ANGLE, rushing with dizzy swiftness over the prairie,
over waving grasses... a long passage... before we come at
last to the girl Clarice, sitting with her lamb, hunched in
despair. She rises, her face tear-stained, and turns from
us. Holding the lamb, she starts back the way she came...
CUT TO:
MOVING ANGLE, very rapid, down this road... coming at last
to a stopped highway patrol car. Clarice, with her lamb, is
standing in the car's headlights. She starts wearily towards
the sheriff...
CUT TO:
CRANE ANGLE - sweeping rapidly DOWN into the barnyard towards
the arriving highway patrol car, as it stops... RUSHING to
the little girl as she steps from the car, holding the lamb.
The dark figure of the rancher ENTERS FRAME. As he roughly
takes the lamb from her, we HOLD on a CLOSEUP of her face -
stunned, blank. She EXITS FRAME...
CUT TO:
MOVING ANGLE - CLARICE'S POV as she walks towards the open
barn doorway... It looms CLOSER... The rancher is revealed,
a shadowy figure, pinning the lamb on the killing table. His
knife hand sweeps up high, then holds... He turns TO CAMERA,
his face breaking into the light - and it is the face of Dr.
Lecter. He smiles his terrible smile at the young Clarice...
CUT TO:
Clarice and Crawford walk out slowly, stand there a moment,
not knowing what to say, not wanting to face each other.
CLARICE
All his victims are women... His
obsession is women, he lives to hunt
women. But not one women is hunting
him - except me. I can walk in a
woman's room and know three times as
much about her as a man would.
(beat)
I have to go to Belvedere.
CRAWFORD
You heard them. I don't have that
authority anymore.
CLARICE
You do until six p.m.
He stares at her sadly. He looks, for the first time,
defeated, old beyond his years.
CRAWFORD
Ohio is cold ground. Picked over,
ten months ago. Our people worked
it, so did the locals.
CLARICE
But not from this angle. Not thinking
he knew her. You've got to send me!
CRAWFORD
I'm Bureau for 28 years, Starling. I
won't disobey orders, not even now.
CLARICE
But I just became a private citizen.
I can go anywhere I want to.
CRAWFORD
With ID and a gun...? Impersonating
a federal agent is a felony.
CLARICE
He's going to kill her, Mr. Crawford.
This morning, or maybe at noon, but
today, and Belvedere's our last
chance. I'm flying there, right now,
unless you stop me. You want my ID?
Here - take it...
He stares at her, a long moment. Catherine's life. Clarice's
passion, and future. His loyalty to the Bureau. Call it.
CRAWFORD
(pulls out his wallet)
There's about $300 here... And a
hotline code number. They'll patch
you through to me, wherever I am.
She raises her hand to him. She wants to touch him face, or
his neck, but can't. Finally she takes his money and card.
CLARICE
Thank you.
He watches, frightened for both of them, as she backs away,
smiles, then turns, racing towards the surveillance van.
SOUND UPCUT - the scratchy recording of Fats Waller SINGING,
as we...
CUT TO:
HIGH ANGLE as a rented sedan pulls up to the curb, stops.
After a moment Clarice climbs out, a bit stiffly. Double-
checking this address, she glances up from a folded street
map to -
AN OLD, THREE-STORY WOODEN HOUSE
in a row of similarly shabby homes, all backing onto a narrow
river. A path of boards, laid over mud, leads back along
this house towards the brown water. SOUND of hammering from
there.
CUT TO:
An awesome huddle of pigeon coops sprawls by the brackish
water. The birds' COOING mixes with the HAMMERING. A tall,
gaunt man in a knit cap is obsessively pounding nails into a
new coop.
CLARICE
approaches him, and the man lowers his hammer. He has red-
rimmed eyes of watery blue. His face is deeply seamed.
CLARICE
Mr. Bimmel...?
He stares back at her, warily.
CUT TO:
Clarice walks slowly across the yard, absorbing all this
news, before suddenly leaping into the air and pumping her
fist in triumph, with a happy yelp. Then she sees -
MR. BIMMEL
staring at her in surprise. He sits by his coops, smoking.
CLARICE
somewhat embarrassed, crosses over to him.
CLARICE
Mr. Bimmel... did Fredrica ever
mention a man named Jamie Gumb, from
Calumet City? Or John Grant?
(he shakes his head)
Did she know any men that sew?
MR. BIMMEL
She sewed for everybody. Stores,
ladies, whatever. I don't know about
men.
CLARICE
Who was her best friend, Mr. Bimmel?
Who'd she hang out with?
CUT TO:
The FBI turbojet is parked, its gangway down. Crawford,
Burroughs, and the HRT squad, carrying their bags of weapons,
CLATTER rapidly down the metal steps...
STACY (V.O.)
Freaked me out. Get your skin peeled
off, is that a bummer...?
CUT TO:
WIDE ANGLE on what appears to be, at first, a calm, ordinary
neighborhood of working class two- and three-story houses.
But the street is strangely quiet, deserted.
After a few moments, we become aware of movement - armed,
dark-clad figures creeping swiftly and in silence from shrubs
to garage corners, from parked cars to porches, appearing
and then disappearing...
CUT TO:
An HRT cop, prone beneath a hedge, is joined by a 2nd HRT
Cop, who throws himself to the grass beside him. They both
take aim with their scoped rifles at -
TELEPHOTO ANGLE (WITH RIFLE CROSSHAIRS)
The front door of a big, nearby, split-level house...
CUT TO:
A little boy, riding his tricycle in his driveway, is suddenly
startled to find himself staring into the grim face of -
A MEMBER OF THE HRT
crouched by his garage, armed to the teeth. As the little
boy starts to cry, the cop pulls him into the shadows,
covering his mouth.
CUT TO:
A florist's van turns the corner, comes slowly down the street
and stops at the curb in front of the split-level. The driver,
in a gray deliveryman's uniform and cap, climbs out of the
cab, walks briskly to the panel door, on the street side of
the van, and slides it open. He leans in, comes out with a
long, thin red-ribboned floral box, starts calmly towards
the house...
CUT TO:
MOVING ANGLE on the "deliveryman," seen from behind, as he
mounts three steps to the split-level's front porch. Tucked
into the small of his back if a 9 mm. automatic.
CRAWFORD AND BURROUGHS
have slipped out of the van, and are crouched behind it now,
with drawn guns, watching tensely as -
THE "DELIVERYMAN"
settles the floral box in the crook of his left arm, reaches
out with his right hand towards the buzzer...
CUT TO:
The "deliveryman" yanks a 12 lb. sledgehammer from the floral
box, swings it with all his might against the door knob,
blowing it through as -
MOVING ANGLE
Crawford and Burroughs race towards the door, guns up...
CUT TO:
Mr. Gumb starts to close the door, only to have Clarice push
back against it, politely but firmly. She holds up her ID.
CLARICE
Excuse me, but I really do need to
talk to you. This was Mrs. Lippman's
house. Did you know her?
MR. GUMB
(beat)
Just briefly. What's the problem,
Officer?
CUT TO:
Clarice and Mr. Gumb, still eyeing each other through the
door crack...
CLARICE
I'm investigating the death of
Fredrica Bimmel. Who are you, please?
MR. GUMB
Jack Gordon.
CLARICE
Mr. Gordon, did you know Fredrica
when she worked for Mrs. Lippman?
MR. GUMB
No. Wait... Was she a great, fat
person? I may have seen her, I'm not
sure...
CUT TO:
MOVING ANGLE - towards the front door, as frustrated HRT
cops file out of the empty house, rifles slung across their
shoulders.
WE PICK OUT CRAWFORD
walking across the grass towards the van, when all at once
he stops in his tracks, shaken by a sudden flash of intuition.
CAMERA RUSHES VERY CLOSE
on his stricken face...
CRAWFORD
Clarice.
CUT TO:
The front porch of the tall Victorian house is bathed in a
glare of TV lights, police and ambulance flashers. Cars and
vans and even a firetruck choke the street; cops, reporters,
EMS workers and curious civilians swarm around the ineffective
barricades. The BUZZ of their voices goes even higher as
CLARICE
dazed, her face bandaged - comes out of the house, walking
protectively beside Catherine, who is wheeled on a gurney.
They are followed out by uniformed cops, then two firemen
with an extension ladder. Catherine, blinking in confusion,
is still clutching the little dog, and refuses to give her
up even as she's trundled into an ambulance. Clarice sways
with exhaustion; everyone seems to be shouting at her at
once, pulling her sleeve. She tries to fight free of them,
desperate for a familiar face.
AN OHIO HIGHWAY PATROL CAR
pulls up, stops, and Crawford climbs out of the back seat.
He makes his way anxiously through the press of bodies,
stopping when he sees Clarice.
THEY LOOK AT ONE ANOTHER
for a long moment, Crawford choked with pride for her, with
sorrow for her ordeal, with love, but unable to find any
words. And then he does.
CRAWFORD
Starling... your father sees you.
And then all at once she is sobbing, her knees giving way,
but he is there to catch her, he is hugging her fiercely.
HOLD ON them for a long beat.
DIRECTOR BURKE (V.O.)
(over loudspeaker)
Congratulations! You are now officers
of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation...
DISSOLVE TO:
The forty members of Clarice's class, resplendent in their
best dark suits and dresses, rise, cheering themselves, then
turn happily to wave to their audience, as APPLAUSE mounts.
Beyond them, on a gaily tented platform, the Director stands
behind his podium.
CLARICE AND ARDELIA
look at one another solemnly. Ardelia holds up both fists,
in a power shake, and Clarice taps them with her own. She is
radiantly beautiful in a navy dress and pearls, the thin
scar on her cheek almost healed. Ardelia turns, waving towards
the crowd, the Clarice's thoughts are elsewhere. She turns,
searching among the dignitaries on the platform, till she
locates
CRAWFORD
who smiles back at her with quiet pride, and offers a little
salute.
CLARICE
grins - more happy than we've ever seen her - then turns to
wave towards the crowd with the others.
MOVING ANGLE
over the admiring sea of spectators, several hundred of them,
still rising from their folding chairs, APPLAUDING in
celebration of these special young people, this perfect,
sunlit day.
SOUND UPCUT - rock music, laughter - as we...
DISSOLVE TO:
Very beautiful, glittering with countless stars.
DR. LECTER (O.S.)
Where I have a view, Clarice...
MOVING DOWN
we see a rolling lawn, a curving bay. Boats ride at anchor,
lights shimmering...
DR. LECTER (O.S.)
Orion is looking splendid tonight,
and Arcturus, the Herdsman, with his
flock...
DR. LECTER
smiles into his mobile phone. He is stretched out on a
lounger, on a tiled patio, languidly paring an orange with a
penknife. His appearance is quite altered - a beard, glasses,
lighter hair. He's has some cosmetic surgery, as well.
DR. LECTER
(into phone)
Your lambs are still for now, Clarice,
but not forever... You'll have to
earn it again and again, this blessed
silence. Because it's the plight
that drives you, and the plight will
never end.
CLARICE
Dr. Lecter -
DR. LECTER
I have no plans to call on you,
Clarice, the world being more
interesting with you in it. Be sure
you extend me the same courtesy.
CLARICE (V.O.)
You know I can't make that promise.
DR. LECTER
Goodbye, Clarice...
(and then, softly)
You looked - so very lovely today,
in your blue suit.
CUT TO:
Dr. Lecter sighs, sets his phone down, then rises. Popping
an orange section into his mouth, he turns towards the
brightly lit house. Stepping delicately over the sprawled
body of a uniformed security guard, he walks in through open
french doors.
CUT TO:
