The Imperial craft has easily overtaken the Rebel Blockade
Runner. The smaller Rebel ship is being drawn into the
underside dock of the giant Imperial starship.
A death-white wasteland stretches from horizon to horizon.
The tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settle on a lone
figure, Luke Skywalker, a farm boy with heroic aspirations
who looks much younger than his eighteen years. His shaggy
hair and baggy tunic give him the air of a simple but lovable
lad with a prize-winning smile.
A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves on a
large battered moisture vaporator which sticks out of the
desert floor much like an oil pipe with valves. He is aided
by a beatup tread-robot with six claw arms. The little robot
appears to be barely functioning and moves with jerky motions.
A bright sparkle in the morning sky catches Luke's eye and
he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from his
utility belt. He stands transfixed for a few moments studying
the heavens, then dashed toward his dented, crudely repaired
Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few feet
above the ground on a magnetic-field). He motions for the
tiny robot to follow him.
LUKE
Hurry up! Come with me! What are you
waiting for?! Get in gear!
The robot scoots around in a tight circle, stops short, and
smoke begins to pour out of every joint. Luke throws his
arms up in disgust. Exasperated, the young farm boy jumps
into his Landspeeder leaving the smoldering robot to hum
madly.
Heat waves radiate from the dozen or so bleached white
buildings. Luke pilots his Landspeeder through the dusty
empty street of the tiny settlement. An old woman runs to
get out of the way of the speeding vehicle, shaking her fist
at Luke as he flies past.
WOMAN
I've told you kids to slow down!
DAY
The group stumbles out into the stifling desert sun. Camie
and The Fixer complain and are forced to shade their eyes.
Luke has his binoculars out scanning the heavens.
LUKE
There they are!
Biggs takes the binoculars from Luke as the others strain to
see something with the naked eye. Through the binoculars
Biggs sees two small silver specks.
BIGGS
That's no battle, hot shot... they're
just sitting there! Probably a
freighter-tanker refueling.
LUKE
But there was a lot of firing
earlier...
Camie grabs the binoculars away banging them against the
building in the process. Luke grabs them.
LUKE
Hey, easy with those...
CAMIE
Don't worry about it, Wormie.
The Fixer gives Luke a hard look and the young farm boy shrugs
his shoulders in resignation.
FIXER
I keep telling you, the Rebellion is
a long way from here. I doubt if the
Empire would even fight to keep this
system. Believe me Luke, this planet
is a big hunk of nothing...
Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why. The
group stumbles back into the power station, grumbling about
Luke's ineptitude.
The Imperial Stardestroyer comes over the surface of the
planet Tatooine.
Jundland, or "No Man's Land", where the rugged desert mesas
meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-droids
kick up clouds of sand as they leave the lifepod and clumsily
work their way across the desert wasteland. The lifepod in
the distance rests half buried in the sand.
THREEPIO
How did I get into this mess? I really
don't know how. We seem to be made
to suffer. It's our lot in life.
Artoo answers with beeping sounds.
THREEPIO
I've got to rest before I fall apart.
My joints are almost frozen.
Artoo continues to respond with beeping sounds.
THREEPIO
What a desolate place this is.
Suddenly Artoo whistles, makes a sharp right turn and starts
off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio
stops and yells at him.
THREEPIO
Where are you going?
A stream of electronic noises pours forth from the small
robot.
THREEPIO
Well, I'm not going that way. It's
much too rocky. This way is much
easier.
Artoo counters with a long whistle.
THREEPIO
What makes you think there are
settlements over there?
Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.
THREEPIO
Don't get technical with me.
Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.
THREEPIO
What mission? What are you talking
about? I've had just about enough of
you! Go that way! You'll be
malfunctioning within a day, you
nearsighted scrap pile!
Threepio gives the little robot a kick and starts off in the
direction of the vast dune sea.
THREEPIO
And don't let me catch you following
me begging for help, because you
won't get it.
Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges
off in the direction of the towering mesas.
THREEPIO
No more adventures. I'm not going
that way.
Artoo beeps to himself as he makes his way toward the distant
mountains.
Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a
dune; only to find more dunes, which seem to go on for endless
miles.
He looks back in the direction of the now distant
rock mesas.
THREEPIO
That malfunctioning little twerp.
This is all his fault! He tricked me
into going this way, but he'll do no
better.
In a huff of anger and frustration, Threepio knocks the sand
from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint of
reflected light in the distance reveals an object moving
towards him.
THREEPIO
Wait, what's that? A transport! I'm
saved!
The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the
approaching transport.
THREEPIO
Over here! Help! Please, help!
Luke and Biggs are walking and drinking a malt brew. Fixer
and the others can be heard working inside.
LUKE
(Very animated)
...so I cut off my power, shut down
the afterburners and came in low on
Deak's trail. I was so close I thought
I was going to fry my instruments.
As it was I busted up the Skyhopper
pretty bad. Uncle Owen was pretty
upset. He grounded me for the rest
of the season. You should have been
there... it was fantastic.
BIGGS
You ought to take it easy Luke. You
may be the hottest bushpilot this
side of Mos Eisley, but those little
Skyhoppers are dangerous. Keep it
up, and one day, whammo, you're going
to be nothing more than a dark spot
on the down side of a canyon wall.
LUKE
Look who's talking. Now that you've
been around those giant starships
you're beginning to sound like my
uncle. You've gotten soft in the
city...
BIGGS
I've missed you kid.
LUKE
Well, things haven't been the same
since you left, Biggs. It's been
so... quiet.
Biggs looks around then leans close to Luke.
BIGGS
Luke, I didn't come back just to say
good-bye... I shouldn't tell you
this, but you're the only one I can
trust... and if I don't come back, I
want somebody to know.
Luke's eyes are wide with Biggs' seriousness and loyalty.
LUKE
What are you talking about?
BIGGS
I made some friends at the Academy.
(he whispers)
...when our frigate goes to one of
the central systems, we're going to
jump ship and join the Alliance...
Luke, amazed and stunned, is almost speechless.
LUKE
Join the Rebellion?! Are you kidding!
How?
BIGGS
Quiet down will ya! You got a mouth
bigger than a meteor crater!
LUKE
I'm sorry. I'm quiet.
(he whispers)
Listen how quiet I am. You can barely
hear me...
Biggs shakes his head angrily and then continues.
BIGGS
My friend has a friend on Bestine
who might help us make contact.
LUKE
You're crazy! You could wander around
forever trying to find them.
BIGGS
I know it's a long shot, but if I
don't find them I'll do what I can
on my own... It's what we always
talked about. Luke, I'm not going to
wait for the Empire to draft me into
service. The Rebellion is spreading
and I want to be on the right side --
the side I believe in.
LUKE
And I'm stuck here...
BIGGS
I thought you were going to the
Academy next term. You'll get your
chance to get off this rock.
LUKE
Not likely! I had to cancel my
application. There has been a lot of
unrest among the Sandpeople since
you left... they've even raided the
outskirts of Anchorhead.
BIGGS
Your uncle could hold off a whole
colony of Sandpeople with one blaster.
LUKE
I know, but he's got enough vaporators
going to make the place pay off. He
needs me for just one more season. I
can't leave him now.
BIGGS
I feel for you, Luke, you're going
to have to learn what seems to be
important or what really is important.
What good is all your uncle's work
if it's taken over by the Empire?...
You know they're starting to
nationalize commerce in the central
systems... it won't be long before
your uncle is merely a tenant, slaving
for the greater glory of the Empire.
LUKE
It couldn't happen here. You said it
yourself. The Empire won't bother
with this rock.
BIGGS
Things always change.
LUKE
I wish I was going... Are you going
to be around long?
BIGGS
No, I'm leaving in the morning...
LUKE
Then I guess I won't see you.
BIGGS
Maybe someday... I'll keep a lookout.
LUKE
Well, I'll be at the Academy next
season... after that who knows. I
won't be drafted into the Imperial
Starfleet that's for sure... Take
care of yourself, you'll always be
the best friend I've got.
BIGGS
So long, Luke.
Biggs turns away from his old friend and heads towards the
power station.
The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange
foreboding mist and the onimous sounds of unearthly creatures
fill the air. Artoo moves cautiously through the creepy rock
canyon, inadvertently making a loud clicking noise as he
goes. He hears a distant, hard, metallic sound and stops for
a moment. Convinced he is alone, he continues on his way.
In the distance, a pebble tumbles down the steep canyon wall
and a small dark figure darts into the shadows. A little
further up the canyon a slight flicker of light reveals a
pair of eyes in the dark recesses only a few feet from the
narrow path.
The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail until
suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray shoots out
of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow. He manages
one short electronic squeak before he topples over onto his
back. His bright computer lights flicker off, then on, then
off again. Out of the rocks scurry three Jawas, no taller
than Artoo. They holster strange and complex weapons as they
cautiously approach the robot. They wear grubby cloaks and
their faces are shrouded so only their glowing eyes can be
seen. They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave
the heavy robot onto their shoulders and carry him off down
the trail.
The eight Jawas carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge tank-
like vehicle the size of a four-story house. They weld a
small disk on the side of Artoo and then put him under a
large tube on the side of the vehicle and the little robot
is sucked into the giant machine.
The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small ladders
and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport.
The enormous Sandcrawler lumbers off toward the magnificent
twin suns, which are slowly setting over a distant mountain
ridge.
Four Imperial stormtroopers mill about in front of the half-
buried lifepod that brought Artoo and Threepio to Tatooine.
A trooper yells to an officer some distance away.
FIRST TROOPER
Someone was in the pod. The tracks
go off in this direction.
A second trooper picks a small bit of metal out of the sand
and gives it to the first trooper.
SECOND TROOPER
Look, sir -- droids.
The Sandcrawler moves slowly down a great sand dune.
The Jawas mutter gibberish as they busily line up their
battered captives, including Artoo and Threepio, in front of
the enormous Sandcrawler, which is parked beside a small
homestead consisting of three large holes in the ground
surrounded by several tall moisture vaporators and one small
adobe block house.
The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots, straightening
them up or brushing some dust from a dented metallic elbow.
The shrouded little creatures smell horribly, attracting
small insects to the dark areas when their mouths and nostrils
should be.
Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps Owen Lars,
a large burly man in his mid-fifties. His reddish eyes are
sunken in a dust-covered face. As the farmer carefully
inspects each robot, he is closely followed by his slump-
shouldered nephew, Luke Skywalker. One of the vile little
Jawas walks ahead of the farmer spouting an animated sales
pitch in a queer, unintelligible language.
A voice calls out from one of the huge holes that form the
homestead. Luke goes over to the edge and sees his Aunt Beru
standing in the main courtyard.
BERU
Luke, tell Owen that if he gets a
translator to be sure it speaks Bocce.
LUKE
It looks like we don't have much of
a choice but I'll remind him.
Luke returns to his uncle as they look over the equipment
for sale with the Jawa leader.
OWEN
I have no need for a protocol droid.
THREEPIO
(quickly)
Sir -- not in an environment such as
this -- that's why I've also been
programmed for over thirty secondary
functions that...
OWEN
What I really need is a droid that
understands the binary language of
moisture vaporators.
THREEPIO
Vaporators! Sir -- My first job was
programming binary load lifter...
very similar to your vaporators. You
could say...
OWEN
Do you speak Bocce?
THREEPIO
Of course I can, sir. It's like a
second language for me... I'm as
fluent in Bocce...
OWEN
All right shut up!
(turning to Jawa)
I'll take this one.
THREEPIO
Shutting up, sir.
OWEN
Luke, take these two over to the
garage, will you? I want you to have
both of them cleaned up before dinner.
LUKE
But I was going into Toshi Station
to pick up some power converters...
OWEN
You can waste time with your friends
when your chores are done. Now come
on, get to it!
LUKE
All right, come on! And the red one,
come on. Well, come on, Red, let's
go.
As the Jawas start to lead the three remaining robots back
into the Sandcrawler, Artoo lets out a pathetic little beep
and starts after his old friend Threepio. He is restrained
by a slimy Jawa, who zaps him with a control box.
Owen is negotiating with the head Jawa. Luke and the two
robots start off for the garage when a plate pops off the
head of the red astro-droid's head plate and it sparks wildly.
LUKE
Uncle Owen...
OWEN
Yeah?
LUKE
This R2 unit has a bad motivator.
Look!
OWEN
(to the head Jawa)
Hey, what're you trying to push on
us?
The Jawa goes into a loud spiel. Meanwhile, Artoo has sneaked
out of line and is moving up and down trying to attract
attention. He lets out with a low whistle. Threepio taps
Luke on the shoulder.
THREEPIO
(pointing to Artoo)
Excuse me, sir, but that R2 unit is
in prime condition. A real bargain.
LUKE
Uncle Owen...
OWEN
Yeah?
LUKE
What about that one?
OWEN
(to Jawa)
What about that blue one? We'll take
that one.
With a little reluctance the scruffy dwarf trades the damaged
astro-droid for Artoo.
LUKE
Yeah, take it away.
THREEPIO
Uh, I'm quite sure you'll be very
pleased with that one, sir. He really
is in first-class condition. I've
worked with him before. Here he comes.
Owen pays off the whining Jawa as Luke and the two robots
trudge off toward a grimy homestead entry.
LUKE
Okay, let's go.
THREEPIO
(to Artoo)
Now, don't you forget this! Why I
should stick my neck out for you is
quite beyond my capacity!
The giant twin suns of Tatooine slowly disappear behind a
distant dune range. Luke stands watching them for a few
moments, then reluctantly enters the doomed entrance to the
homestead.
Luke rushes out of the small doomed entry to the homestead
and searches the darkening horizon for the small triped astro-
robot. Threepio struggles out of the homestead and on the
salt flat as Luke scans the landscape with his
electrobinoculars.
THREEPIO
That R2 unit has always been a
problem. These astro-droids are
getting quite out of hand. Even I
can't understand their logic at times.
LUKE
How could I be so stupid? He's nowhere
in sight. Blast it!
THREEPIO
Pardon me, sir, but couldn't we go
after him?
LUKE
It's too dangerous with all the
Sandpeople around. We'll have to
wait until morning.
Owen yells up from the homestead plaza.
OWEN
Luke, I'm shutting the power down
for the night.
LUKE
All right, I'll be there in a few
minutes. Boy, am I gonna get it.
He takes one final look across the dim horizon.
LUKE
You know that little droid is going
to cause me a lot of trouble.
THREEPIO
Oh, he excels at that, sir.
The rock and sand of the desert floor are a blur as Threepio
pilots the sleek Landspeeder gracefully across the vast
wasteland.
DAY
Luke leans over the back of the speeder and adjusts something
in the motor compartment.
LUKE
(yelling)
How's that.
Threepio signals that is fine and Luke turns back into the
wind-whipped cockpit and pops the canopy shut.
LUKE
Old Ben Kenobi lives out in this
direction somewhere, but I don't see
how that R2 unit could have come
this far. We must have missed him.
Uncle Owen isn't going to take this
very well.
THREEPIO
Sir, would it help if you told him
it was my fault.
LUKE
(brightening)
Sure. He needs you. He'd probably
only deactivate you for a day or
so...
THREEPIO
Deactivate! Well, on the other hand
if you hadn't removed his restraining
bolt...
LUKE
Wait, there's something dead ahead
on the scanner. It looks like our
droid... hit the accelerator.
From high on a rock mesa, the tiny Landspeeder can be seen
gliding across the desert floor. Suddenly in the foreground
two weather-beaten Sandpeople shrouded in their grimy desert
cloaks peer over the edge of the rock mesa. One of the
marginally human creatures raises a long ominous laser rifle
and points it at the speeder but the second creature grabs
the gun before it can be fired.
The Sandpeople, or Tusken Raiders as they're sometimes called,
speak in a coarse barbaric language as they get into an
animated argument. The second Tusken Raider seems to get in
the final word and the nomads scurry over the rocky terrain.
The Tusken Raider approaches two large Banthas standing tied
to a rock. The monstrous, bear-like creatures are as large
as elephants, with huge red eyes, tremendous looped horns,
and long, furry, dinosaur-like tails. The Tusken Raiders
mount saddles strapped to the huge creatures' shaggy backs
and ride off down the rugged bluff.
The speeder is parked on the floor of a massive canyon. Luke,
with his long laser rifle slung over his shoulder, stands
before little Artoo.
LUKE
Hey, whoa, just where do you think
you're going?
The little droid whistles a feeble reply, as Threepio poses
menacingly behind the little runaway.
THREEPIO
Master Luke here is your rightful
owner. We'll have no more of this
Obi-Wan Kenobi jibberish... and don't
talk to me about your mission, either.
You're fortunate he doesn't blast
you into a million pieces right here.
LUKE
Well, come on. It's getting late. I
only hope we can get back before
Uncle Owen really blows up.
THREEPIO
If you don't mind my saying so, sir,
I think you should deactivate the
little fugitive until you've gotten
him back to your workshop.
LUKE
No, he's not going to try anything.
Suddenly the little robot jumps to life with a mass of frantic
whistles and screams.
LUKE
What's wrong with him now?
THREEPIO
Oh my... sir, he says there are
several creatures approaching from
the southeast.
Luke swings his rifle into position and looks to the south.
LUKE
Sandpeople! Or worst! Come on, let's
have a look. Come on.
Luke carefully makes his way to the top of a rock ridge and
scans the canyon with his electrobinoculars. He spots the
two riderless Banthas. Threepio struggles up behind the young
adventurer.
LUKE
There are two Banthas down there but
I don't see any... wait a second,
they're Sandpeople all right. I can
see one of them now.
Luke watches the distant Tusken Raider through his
electrobinoculars. Suddenly something huge moves in front of
his field of view. Before Luke or Threepio can react, a large,
gruesome Tusken Raider looms over them. Threepio is startled
and backs away, right off the side if the cliff. He can be
heard for several moments as he clangs, bangs and rattles
down the side of the mountain.
The towering creature brings down his curved, double-pointed
gaderffii -- the dreaded axe blade that has struck terror in
the heart of the local settlers. But Luke manages to block
the blow with his laser rifle, which is smashed to pieces.
The terrified farm boy scrambles backward until he is forced
to the edge of a deep crevice. The sinister Raider stands
over him with his weapon raised and lets out a horrible
shrieking laugh.
Artoo forces himself into the shadows of a small alcove in
the rocks as the vicious Sandpeople walk past carrying the
inert Luke Skywalker, who is dropped in a heap before the
speeder.
The Sandpeople ransack the speeder, throwing parts
and supplies in all directions. Suddenly they stop. Then
everything is quiet for a few moments. A great howling moan
is heard echoing throughout the canyon which sends the
Sandpeople fleeing in terror.
Artoo moves even tighter into the shadows as the slight
swishing sound that frightened off the Sandpeople grows even
closer, until a shabby old desert-rat-of-a-man appears and
leans over Luke. His ancient leathery face, cracked and
weathered by exotic climates is set off by dark, penetrating
eyes and a scraggly white beard. Ben Kenobi squints his eyes
as he scrutinizes the unconscious farm boy. Artoo makes a
slight sound and Ben turns and looks right at him.
BEN
Hello there! Come here my little
friend. Don't be afraid.
Artoo waddles over to were Luke lies crumpled in a heap and
begins to whistle and beep his concern. Ben puts his hand on
Luke's forehead and he begins to come around.
BEN
Don't worry, he'll be all right.
LUKE
What happened?
BEN
Rest easy, son, you've had a busy
day. You're fortunate you're still
in one piece.
LUKE
Ben? Ben Kenobi! Boy, am I glad to
see you!
BEN
The Jundland wastes are not to be
traveled lightly. Tell me young Luke,
what brings you out this far?
LUKE
Oh, this little droid! I think he's
searching for his former master...
I've never seen such devotion in a
droid before... there seems to be no
stopping him. He claims to be the
property of an Obi-Wan Kenobi. Is he
a relative of yours? Do you know who
he's talking about?
Ben ponders this for a moment, scratching his scruffy beard.
BEN
Obi-Wan Kenobi... Obi-Wan? Now thats
a name I haven't heard in a long
time... a long time.
LUKE
I think my uncle knew him. He said
he was dead.
BEN
Oh, he's not dead, not... not yet.
LUKE
You know him!
BEN
Well of course, of course I know
him. He's me! I haven't gone by the
name Obi-Wan since oh, before you
were born.
LUKE
Then the droid does belong to you.
BEN
Don't seem to remember ever owning a
droid. Very interesting...
He suddenly looks up at the overhanging cliffs.
BEN
I think we better get indoors. The
Sandpeople are easily startled but
they will soon be back and in greater
numbers.
Luke sits up and rubs his head. Artoo lets out a pathetic
beep causing Luke to remember something. He looks around.
LUKE
Threepio!
Little Artoo stands at the edge of a large sand pit and begins
to chatter away in electronic whistles and beeps. Luke and
Ben stand over a very dented and tangled Threepio lying half
buried in the sand. One of his arms has broken off.
Luke tries to revive the inert robot by shaking him and then
flips a hidden switch on his back several times until finally
the mechanical man's systems turn on.
THREEPIO
Where am I? I must have taken a bad
step...
LUKE
Can you stand? We've got to get out
of here before the Sandpeople return.
THREEPIO
I don't think I can make it. You go
on, Master Luke. There's no sense in
you risking yourself on my account.
I'm done for.
Artoo makes a beeping sound.
LUKE
No, you're not. What kind of talk is
that?
Luke and Ben help the battered robot to his feet. Little
Artoo watches from the top of the pit. Ben glances around
suspiciously. Sensing something, he stands up and sniffs the
air.
BEN
Quickly, son... they're on the move.
An Imperial Stardestroyer heads toward the evil planet-like
battle station: the Death Star!
The speeder stops before what remains of the huge Jawas
Sandcrawler. Luke and Ben walk among the smoldering rubble
and scattered bodies.
LUKE
It looks like Sandpeople did this,
all right. Look, here are Gaffi
sticks, Bantha tracks. It's just...
I never heard of them hitting anything
this big before.
Ben is crouching in the sand studying the tracks.
BEN
They didn't. But we are meant to
think they did. These tracks are
side by side. Sandpeople always ride
single file to hide there numbers.
LUKE
These are the same Jawas that sold
us Artoo and Threepio.
BEN
And these blast points, too accurate
for Sandpeople. Only Imperial
stormtroopers are so precise.
LUKE
Why would Imperial troops want to
slaughter Jawas?
Luke looks back at the speeder where Artoo and Threepio are
inspecting the dead Jawas, and put two and two together.
LUKE
If they traced the robots here, they
may have learned who they sold them
to. And that would lead them home!
Luke reaches a sudden horrible realization, then races for
the speeder and jumps it.
BEN
Wait, Luke! It's too dangerous.
Luke races off leaving Ben and the two robots alone with the
burning Sandcrawler.
Luke races across the wasteland in his battered Landspeeder.
The speeder roars up to the burning homestead. Luke jumps
out and runs to the smoking holes that were once his home.
Debris is scattered everywhere and it looks as if a great
battle has taken place.
LUKE
Uncle Owen! Aunt Beru! Uncle Owen!
Luke stumbles around in a daze looking for his aunt and uncle.
Suddenly he comes upon their smoldering remains. He is
stunned, and cannot speak. Hate replaces fear and a new
resolve comes over him.
Imperial TIE fighter races toward the Death Star.
There is a large bonfire of Jawa bodies blazing in front of
the Sandcrawler as Ben and the robots finish burning the
dead.
Luke drives up in the speeder and Ben walks over to
him.
BEN
There's nothing you could have done,
Luke, had you been there. You'd have
been killed, too, and the droids
would be in the hands of the Empire.
LUKE
I want to come with you to Alderaan.
There's nothing here for me now. I
want to learn the ways of the Force
and become a Jedi like my father.
The Landspeeder with Luke, Artoo, Threepio, and Ben in it
zooms across the desert. The speeder stops on a bluff
overlooking the spaceport at Mos Eisley. It is a haphazard
array of low, grey, concrete structures and semi-domes. A
harsh gale blows across the stark canyon floor. Luke adjusts
his goggles and walks to the edge of the craggy bluff where
Ben is standing.
BEN
Mos Eisley Spaceport. You will never
find a more wretched hive of scum
and villainy. We must be cautious.
Ben looks over at Luke, who gives the old Jedi a determined
smile.
The speeder is stopped on a crowded street by several combat-
hardend stormtroopers who look over the two robots. A Trooper
questions Luke.
TROOPER
How long have you had these droids?
LUKE
About three or four seasons.
BEN
They're for sale if you want them.
TROOPER
Let me see your identification.
Luke becomes very nervous as he fumbles to find his ID while
Ben speaks to the Trooper in a very controlled voice.
BEN
You don't need to see his
identification.
TROOPER
We don't need to see his
identification.
BEN
These are not the droids your looking
for.
TROOPER
These are not the droids we're looking
for.
BEN
He can go about his business.
TROOPER
You can go about your business.
BEN
(to Luke)
Move along.
TROOPER
Move along. Move along.
The speeder pulls up in front of a rundown blockhouse cantina
on the outskirts of the spaceport. Various strange forms of
transport, including several unusual beasts of burden, are
parked outside the bar. A Jawa runs up and begins to fondle
the speeder.
THREEPIO
I can't abide these Jawas. Disgusting
creatures.
As Luke gets out of the speeder he tries to shoo the Jawa
away.
LUKE
Go on, go on. I can't understand how
we got by those troopers. I thought
we were dead.
BEN
The Force can have a strong influence
on the weak-minded. You will find it
a powerful ally.
LUKE
Do you really think we're going to
find a pilot here that'll take us to
Alderaan?
BEN
Well, most of the best freighter
pilots can be found here. Only watch
your step. This place can be a little
rough.
LUKE
I'm ready for anything.
THREEPIO
Come along, Artoo.
Threepio paces in front of the cantina as Artoo carries on
an electronic conversation with another little red astro-
droid. A creature comes out of the cantina and approaches
two stormtroopers in the street.
THREEPIO
I don't like the look of this.
BEN
You'll have to sell your speeder.
LUKE
That's okay. I'm never coming back
to this planet again.
Several TIE fighters approach the Death Star.
Four heavily-armed stormtroopers move menacingly along a
narrow slum alleyway crowed with darkly clad creatures hawking
exotic goods in the dingy little stalls. Men, monsters, and
robots crouch in the waste-filled doorways, whispering and
hiding from the hot winds.
THREEPIO
Lock the door, Artoo.
One of the troopers checks a tightly locked door and moves
on down the alleyway. The door slides open a crack and
Threepio peeks out. Artoo is barely visible in the background.
TROOPER
All right, check that side of the
street. It's secure. Move on to the
next door.
The door opens, Threepio moves into the doorway.
THREEPIO
I would much rather have gone with
Master Luke than stay here with you.
I don't know what all the trouble is
about, but I'm sure it must be your
fault.
Artoo makes beeping sounds.
THREEPIO
You watch your language!
SPEEDER LOT
Ben and Luke are standing in a sleazy used speeder lot,
talking with a tall, grotesque, insect-like used speeder
dealer. Strange exotic bodies and spindly-legged beasts pass
by as the insect concludes the sale by giving Luke some coins.
LUKE
He says it's the best he can do.
Since the XP-38 came out, they're
just not in demand.
BEN
It will be enough.
Ben and Luke leave the speeder lot and walk down the dusty
alleyway past a small robot herding a bunch of anteater-like
creatures. Luke turns and gives one last forlorn look at his
faithful speeder as he rounds a corner. A darkly clad creature
moves out of the shadows as they pass and watches them as
they disappear down another alley.
BEN
If the ship's as fast as he's
boasting, we ought to do well.
Chewbacca waits restlessly at the entrance to Docking Bay
94.
Ben, Luke, and the robots make their way up the street.
Chewbacca jabbers excitedly and signals for them to hurry.
The darkly clad creature has followed them from the speeder
lot.
He stops in a nearby doorway and speaks into a small
transmitter.
Eight Imperial stormtroopers rush up to the darkly clad
creature.
TROOPER
Which way?
The darkly clad creature points to the door of the docking
bay.
TROOPER
All right, men. Load your weapons!
The half-dozen stormtroopers at a check point hear the general
alarm and look to the sky as the huge starship rises above
the dingy slum dwellings and quickly disappears into the
morning sky.
The Corellian pirateship zooms from Tatooine into space.
The Millennium Falcon pirateship races away from the yellow
planet, Tatooine. It is followed by two huge Imperial
stardestroyers.
Imperial cruisers fire at the pirateship.
The Millennium Falcon zooms into infinity in less than a
second.
Alderaan looms behind the Death Star battlestation.
The pirateship is just coming out of hyperspace; a strange
surreal light show surrounds the ship.
The fighter races past the Corellian pirateship.
The pirateship zooms over the camera and away into the
vastness of space after the Imperial TIE fighter.
The TIE fighter is losing ground to the larger pirateship as
they race toward camera and disappear over head.
The helpless Millennium Falcon is pulled past a docking port
control room and huge laser turret cannons.
VOICE OVER DEATH STAR INTERCOM
Clear Bay twenty-three-seven. We are opening the magnetic
field.
The Millennium Falcon powers away from the Death Star docking
bay, makes a spectacular turn and disappears into the vastness
of space.
The TIE fighter races past the Falcon, firing laser beams as
it passes.
Two TIE fighters dive down toward the pirateship.
Pan with pirateship as two TIE fighters charge through the
background. Laserbolts streak from all the craft.
Full shot of a TIE fighter as it moves fast through the frame,
firing on the pirate starship.
The two TIE fighters fire a barrage of laserbeams at the
pirateship.
A TIE fighter streaks in front of the starship.
A TIE fighter heads right for the pirateship, then zooms
overhead.
A TIE fighter dives past the pirateship.
Two TIE fighters move toward and over the Millennium Falcon,
unleashing a barrage of laserbolts at the ship.
Two more TIE fighters cross in front of the pirateship.
A TIE fighter moves up over the pirateship, firing laserblasts
at it.
The TIE fighter zooms toward the pirateship, firing
destructive blasts at it.
The last of the attacking Imperial TIE fighters looms in,
firing upon the Falcon.
The victorious Millennium Falcon moves off majestically
through space.
The battered pirateship drifts into orbit around the planet
Yavin and proceeds to one of its tiny green moons.
The pirateship soars over the dense jungle.
An alert guard, his laser gun in hand, scans the countryside.
He sets the gun down and looks toward the temple, barely
visible in the foliage.
Rotting in a forest of gargantuan trees, an ancient temple
lies shrouded in an eerie mist. The air is heavy with the
fantastic cries of unimaginable creatures. Han, Luke and the
others are greeted by the Rebel troops.
Luke and the group ride into the massive temple on an armored
military speeder.
The surface of the Death Star ominously approaches the red
planet Yavin.
A lone guard stands in a tower high above the Yavin landscape,
surveying the countryside. A mist hangs over the jungle of
twisted green.
The Death Star begins to move around the planet toward the
tiny green moon.
All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard standing
on a small pedestal jutting out above the dense jungle. The
muted gruesome crying sounds that naturally permeate this
eerie purgatory are overwhelmed by the thundering din of ion
rockets as four silver starships catapult from the foliage
in a tight formation and disappears into the morning cloud
cover.
The Death Star slowly moves behind the massive yellow surface
of Yavin in the foreground, as many X-wing fighters flying
in formation zoom toward us and out of the frame.
Light from a distant sun creates an eerie atmospheric glow
around a huge planet, Yavin. Rebel fighters flying in
formation settle ominously in the foreground and very slowly
pull away.
Artoo-Detoo, in position outside of the fighter, turns his
head from side to side and makes beeping sounds.
The group of X-wing fighters move in formation toward the
Death Star, unfolding the wings and locking them in the "X"
position.
The fighters, now X-shaped darts, move in formation. The
Death Star now appears to be a small moon growing rapidly in
size as the Rebel fighters approach. Complex patterns on the
metallic surface begin to become visible. A large dish antenna
is built into the surface on one side.
As the fighters move closer to the Death Star, the awesome
size of the gargantuan Imperial fortress is revealed. Half
of the deadly space station is in shadow and this area
sparkles with thousands of small lights running in thin lines
and occasionally grouped in large clusters; somewhat like a
city at night as seen from a weather satellite.
Two squads of Rebel fighters peel off. The X-wings dive
towards the Death Star surface. A thousand lights glow across
the dark grey expanse of the huge station.
Laserbolts streak through the star-filled night. The Rebel X-
wing fighters move in toward the Imperial base, as the Death
Star aims its massive laser guns at the Rebel forces and
fires.
An X-wing zooms across the surface of the Death Star.
X-wings continue in their attack course on the Death Star.
Luke's X-wing races toward the Death Star. Laserbolts streak
from Luke's weapons, creating a huge fireball explosion on
the dim surface.
Luke's ship emerges from the fireball, with the leading edges
of his wings slightly scorched.
Rebel fighters continue to strafe the Death Star's surface
with laserbolts.
Luke flings his X-wing into a twisting dive across the horizon
and down onto the dim grey surface.
A shot hurls from Luke's guns. Laserbolts streak toward the
onrushing Death Star surface. Several small radar emplacements
erupt in flame. Laserfire erupts from a protruding tower on
the surface.
The Death Star superstructure races past Luke as he maneuvers
his craft through a wall of laserfire and peels away from
the surface towards the heavens.
Silhouetted against the rim lights of the Death Star horizon,
four ferocious Imperial TIE ships dive on the Rebel fighters.
Two of the TIE fighters peel off and drop out of frame. Pan
with the remaining two TIE ships.
Biggs zooms off the surface and into space, closely followed
by an Imperial TIE fighter. The TIE ship fires several
laserbolts at Biggs, but misses.
Biggs, flying at high altitude, peels off and dives toward
the Death Star surface, but he is unable to lose the TIE
fighter, who sticks close to his tail.
Biggs and the tailing TIE ship dive for the surface, now
followed by a fast-gaining Luke. After Biggs dives out of
sight, Luke chases the Imperial fighter.
In the foreground, the Imperial fighter races across the
Death Star's surface, closely followed by Luke in the
background.
Luke's ship soars away from the Death Star's surface as he
spots the tailing TIE fighter.
The Imperial TIE fighter pilot scores a hit on Luke's ship.
Fire breaks out on the right side of the X-wing.
Smoke pours out from behind Artoo-Detoo.
LUKE'S VOICE
Artoo, see what you can do with it.
Hang on back there.
Green laserfire moves past the beeping little robot as his
head turns.
Luke's ship soars closer to the surface of the Death Star,
an Imperial TIE fighter closing in on him in hot pursuit.
Wedge dives across the horizon toward Luke and the TIE
fighter.
The TIE fighter explodes, filling the screen with white light.
Luke's ship can be seen far in the distance.
Three Y-wing fighters of the Gold group dive out of the stars
toward the Death Star surface.
Three Imperial TIE ships in precise formation dive toward
the Death Star surface.
Gold Leader approaches the surface and pulls out to skim the
surface of the huge station. The ship moves into a deep
trench, firing laserbolts. The surface streaks past as
laserfire is returned by the Death Star.
Three Y-wing skim the Death Star surface deep in the trench,
as laserbolts streak past on all sides.
An exterior surface gun blazes away at the oncoming Rebel
fighters.
The three Y-wing fighters race toward camera and zoom overhead
through a hail of laserfire.
Gold Five looks behind him.
GOLD FIVE
Stabilize your read deflectors. Watch
for enemy fighters.
Three Imperial TIE ships, Darth Vader in the center flanked
by two wingmen, dive in precise formation almost vertically
toward the Death Star surface.
Three TIE fighters zoom across the surface of the Death Star.
As Gold Two's ship explodes, debris is flung out into space.
The three TIE fighters race along in the trench in a tight
formation.
Gold Leader explodes in a ball of flames, throwing debris in
all directions.
One of the engines explodes on Gold Five's Y-wing fighter,
blazing out of control. He dives past the horizon toward the
Death Star's surface, passing a TIE fighter during his
descent. Gold Five, a veteran of countless campaigns, spins
toward his death.
The X-wing fighters of Luke, Biggs, and Wedge fly in formation
high above the Death Star's surface.
Two X-wings move across the surface of the Death Star. Red
Leader's X-wing drops down to the surface leading to the
exhaust port.
Red Leader roams down the trench of the Death Star as lasers
streak across the black heavens.
A huge remote-control laser cannon fires at the approaching
Rebel fighters.
The Rebel fighters evade the Imperial laser blasts.
From the cockpits of the Rebel pilots, the surface of the
Death Star streaks by, with Imperial laserfire shooting toward
them.
Three X-wing fighters move in formation down the Death Star
trench.
RED TEN'S VOICE
Red Five, can you see them from where
you are?
Three TIE fighters, Vader flanked by two wingmen, dive in a
tight formation. The sun reflects off their dominate solar
fins as they loop toward the Death Star's surface.
Red Leader's X-wing moves up the Death Star trench.
The three TIE fighters move in formation across the Death
Star surface.
Vader and his wingmen zoom down the trench.
Red Twelve's X-wing fighter is hit by Vader's laserfire, and
it explodes into flames against the trench.
Vader and his wingmen whip through the trench in pursuit of
the Rebel fighters.
Red Ten's ship explodes and bursts into flames.
Darth Vader peels off in pursuit as Red Leader's X-wing passes
the Death Star horizon.
Laserbolts are flung from Vader's TIE fighter, connecting
with Red Leader's Rebel X-wing fighter. Red Leader buys it,
creating a tremendous explosion far below. He screams and is
destroyed.
The two X-wings peel off against a background of stars and
dive toward the Death Star.
The three X-wings move in, unleashing a barrage of laserfire.
Laserbolts are returned from the Death Star.
The Death Star laser cannon slowly rotates as it shoots
laserbolts.
Luke's X-wing streaks through the trench, firing lasers.
Artoo works to repair the damages. The canyon wall rushes by
in the background, making his delicate task seem even more
precarious.
Two laser cannons are firing on the Rebel fighters.
Vader and his wingmen zoom closer.
Wedge pulls his crippled X-wing back away from the battle.
Luke's X-wing speeds down the trench; the three TIE fighters,
still in perfect unbroken formation, tail close behind.
The three TIE fighters move ever closer, closing in on Luke
and Biggs.
Ignoring the bumpy ride, flak, and lasers, a beeping Artoo-
Detoo struggles to increase the power, his dome turning from
side to side.
Stealthily, the TIE formation creeps closer.
Vader and his wingmen race through the Death Star trench.
Biggs moves in to cover for Luke, but Vader gains on him.
Biggs' ship bursts into a million flaming bits and scatters
across the surface.
Luke's ship streaks through the trench of the Death Star.
Three TIE fighters charge away down the trench toward Luke.
Luke's ship charges down the trench.
The Death Star trench zooms by.
Luke's fighter streaks through the trench.
Vader follows Luke's X-wing down the trench.
Luke's ship streaks ever close to the exhaust port.
Artoo-Detoo turns his head from side to side, beeping in
anticipation.
The three TIE fighters, manned by Vader and his two wingmen,
follow Luke's X-wing down the trench.
A large burst of Vader's laserfire engulfs Artoo. The arms
go limp on the smoking little droid as he makes a high-pitched
sound.
Smoke billows out around little Artoo and sparks begin to
fly.
LUKE
I've lost Artoo!
Artoo's beeping sounds die out.
The three TIE fighters zoom down the Death Star trench in
pursuit of Luke, never breaking formation.
Luke's ship barrels down the trench.
The three TIE fighters move in on Luke. As Vader's center
fighter unleashes a volley of laserfire, one of the TIE ships
at his side is hit and explodes into flame. The two remaining
ships continue to move in.
The Millennium Falcon heads right at the two TIE fighters.
It's a collision course.
Vader's wingman panics at the sight of the oncoming pirate
starship and veers radically to one side, colliding with
Vader's TIE fighter in the process. Vader's wingman crashes
into the side wall of the trench and explodes. Vader's damaged
ship spins out of the trench with a damaged wing.
Vader's ship spins out of control with a bent solar fin,
heading for deep space.
Solo's ship moves in toward the Death Star trench.
Luke's torpedoes shoot toward the port and seems to simply
disappear into the surface and not explode. But the shots do
find their mark and have gone into the exhaust port and are
heading for the main reactor.
Two X-wings, a Y-wing, and the pirateship race toward Yavin
in the distance.
The Rebel ships race out of sight, leaving the moon-like
Death Star alone against a blanket of stars. Several small
flashes appear on the surface. The Death Star bursts into a
supernova, creating a spectacular heavenly display.
Vader's ship spins off into space.
The Rebel ships race toward the fourth moon of Yavin.
