It turns and snarls at the craft some fifteen hundred yards
to its rear. Then whirls and gallops off. A gun blast kicks
up snow at its heels.
running feverishly up and over a hill of ice. A weather-
beaten, wooden sign sticks up on the other side:
U.S. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION -- OUTPOST #31
A rifle blast kicks up more snow.
A large, almost snow-covered building. Not far from that a
tall, meteorological balloon tower.
A scattering of several small shacks at varying distances
from the main compound. The smaller hovels are connected by
wooden planked walkways and steadying ropes. Multicolored
pennants stick put of the snow marking pathways and directions
to outdoor experiments.
A tractor and two helicopters sit idle, covered with mounds
of continuously mounting snow.
TWO MEN, NORRIS AND BENNINGS
standing some thirty yards from the main building are in the
process of letting up a large red balloon. Childs, a hefty
black man, is twenty yards away tinkering with a snowmobile.
Their beards are caked with ice. It is winter and it is harsh.
The faint sound of the copter turns their attention.
THE COPTER
flying ever lower now. The man with the gun leans dangerously
outside and fires away at the dog as it nears the outpost.
THE MEN
outside the compound look to one another, incredulous.
THE COPTER
much too low now, and chastised by the wind, attempts a high-
speed landing, directly on the heels of the sprinting dog.
It bounces violently on the hard-packed surface.
Once. Twice. Passing the dog.
A third bounce sends it skidding. It flips; its blades
snapping off like toothpicks. It lands belly-up, soundless
except for the whine of its engine.
The man with the gun rolls out before the explosion.
The dog reaches Norris and Bennings, as they awkwardly wade
through the snow, toward the downed copter.
THE SURVIVOR
of the crash, his eyes crazed with determination, struggles
to his feet. Heedless of his companion, he double-times his
way to the men and the dog. He reloads his gun and bellows
in his Scandinavian tongue.
Norris and Bennings have no idea what he is saying.
The survivor waves his arms as if shooting them off, screaming
as he does so; his face now caked with blood.
The two men are bewildered. The dog jumps up, licking and
pawing them, imploring for safety.
Blam!! The visitor fires. The men jump back in disbelief.
NORRIS
What the fu...
Blam! Blam! The crazed visitor screams and fires as he stalks
after them. His countenance ablaze, mad. Ice and snow kick
up about the terrified Americans. A bullet smacks into the
dog's hip, sending it skidding and howling in pain.
Childs, the black man by the snowmobile, takes cover, diving
behind his machine.
Bennings is hit. Norris pulls, drags him back toward the
compound. The dog crawls along beside them.
The intruder is relentless in his assail. He runs, screaming,
firing, screaming, reloading and firing.
Several men spray snow on the burning wreckage. There is no
hope for the pilot.
CUT TO:
Norris, bundled in his sixty-five pounds of clothing, exits
the main compound. He walks the prefab wooden planks up the
precipice; his destination is someone a hundred yards up the
slope -- to a shack. He grabs onto the steadying ropes and
pulls himself against the wind and blowing sleet.
One of the grounded choppers is being readied for take-off.
Childs holds a huge industrial torch to the engine, warming
it up.
Dr. Copper sits next to MacReady, who is at the controls.
MacReady tightens the string of his sombrero around his neck
and starts up its choking engine.
MacReady fights violently with the controls as he struggles
to get the craft into the air. It finally rights itself and
moves up and off into the grey-white sky.
moves over a ridge of ice. Columns of smoke can be seen rising
ominously from a quarter mile off.
Smoke climbs upward in the f.g. MacReady sets his craft down.
Pull back to reveal the camp itself: resembling the aftermath
of a western fort, sacked and ravaged by Indians.
Small fires and debris are strewn everywhere. The prefab
Administration Building exposes gaping holes. Smoke rises
from the almost entirely snow-buried Quonset huts. Embers
swirl in every direction.
MacReady and Dr. Copper stand hesitantly amidst the wisps of
snow and embers. MacReady tries the door. It is unlocked. He
slowly pushes it open with his gun. A creaking. A long pitch-
black corridor. Copper shines a flashlight.
DR. COPPER
Anybody there?!
No answer. Just wind. They exchange a look and enter.
Fuchs, the young biologist, is finishing up his daily jog
around the compound. He stops at the end of a long Quonset
hut almost completely buried in the snow. The hut is fifty
yards long and connects to the main compound. He enters a
tunnel from a latch door up top.
A steady stream of sleet pounds the compound and small
surrounding shacks.
Those of the men that have gathered exhibit a pale and quiet
uneasiness.
Blair, in silent awe, stands over the badly burned corpses
of two interlocking dogs, that lie before him on a table.
They are connected as if they were one animal. Though, the
one wearing the remnants of Clark's bandage is much larger
and appears less dog-like. Its entire torso is cracked and
peeled, as if its innards were trying to burst out.
Odd appendages, recoiled and withered by the flame, are
wrapped grotesquely about both bodies.
Clark, his eyes set in glassy stare, sits in shock. Nauls
comforts him. Childs stands nearby smoking a joint and staring
at the floor.
Blair, transfixed, continues hovering over the united
cadavers. Weighing. Thinking. A very worried look on his
face.
The dead bodies of two other dogs from the kennel are not
far off.
high above the Antarctic expanse.
as they walk along the ice. They come to a stop at the edge
of a sharp drop.
Pull back to reveal -- the massive black hole about fifteen
feet beneath the ice. Charred, gnarled and mangled metal are
all that is left of what was once an enormous sphere.
MacReady's and Norris' eyes meet each other in silence.
Palmer is in awe.
PALMER
Wow...
MacReady finds a burst thermite canister. He and Norris climb
down.
They move along amongst the wreck. Almost everything but the
skeletal superstructure has disintegrated into a fine ashy
powder.
Norris digs for ice samples at the perimeter of the wreckage,
while MacReady browses through the center.
Palmer continues to marvel, as he walks around the oval,
atop the ice.
MacReady returns and kneels down next to Norris as the latter
examines a piece of metal.
NORRIS
Magnesium of some type... or some
kind of strange alloy.
(looks out at debris
in disgust)
And those poor dumb bastards had to
go and blow the hell out of it.
MACREADY
So what do you make of it?
NORRIS
You know damn well what we both make
of it.
MACREADY
No chance it could have been some
new kind of test craft?
Norris shakes his head no.
NORRIS
Seismic activity has been pushing
this are up from way down for a long
time...
(holds up ice sample)
...This ice it was buried in...
It's over a hundred thousand years
old.
Palmer calls out, waving them over.
The two men join Palmer about fifty yards from the oval.
A large rectangular chunk has been cut out of the ice. It is
fifteen feet long, six feet wide and eight feet deep.
MacReady kneels down to observe. A beat.
A gust of wind picks up the snow at their feet.
CUT TO:
lying on the snow. Splash. They are being soaked with
gasoline.
FUCHS (O.S.)
(in violent
protestation)
You can't do this! You can't burn
these remains...
Pull back. Fuchs is beside himself. Childs has the large
torch. MacReady empties another can on the bodies. Dr. Copper
stands nearby.
MACREADY
And the horse you rode in on, Fuchs.
(to Childs)
Light it up.
Childs lights the tip. Fuchs makes a determined move for the
torch.
FUCHS
Well, I'm not going to let this
happen...
Childs struggles with him for a beat and then flings him to
the ground. Dr. Copper grabs him preventing him from getting
back up.
Childs splays the remains with a jet of flame. Fuchs shakes
his head in frustration and disgust.
FUCHS
I just can't believe it... We're
going to go down as the biggest bunch
of assholes in history...
MACREADY
Fuck history. At least we're going
to live to be an old bunch of
assholes.
CUT TO:
Pitch black except for the barest of lighting which outlines
the building. Wind. The swirl of ice.
MacReady exits. He swacks at a nearby bank of ice with a
small ice pick.
MACREADY
Now in Mexico... Tahiti... They got
ice... They got ice coming out of
their ears.
The sound of a clanking. He turns his attention. Metal against
metal. Strange. MacReady listens. It appears to be coming
from far off below, near the camp.
MACREADY
as he makes his way down with the aid of the steadying ropes.
The clanking louder now. He senses the direction.
MACREADY
at the bottom near the main compound.
The sound has stopped.
He looks around in the near blackness.
A beat.
THE CHOPPERS
sitting idle in the dark. MacReady approaches. The door to
one of the cockpits is slightly ajar. He opens it cautiously.
Heavily-clothed, MacReady, Fuchs and Dr. Copper help a dazed
Blair to a toolshed some seventy-five yards from the main
compound.
Fuchs and MacReady nail boards over the windows.
MACREADY
Leave a bit of an opening so he can
see out.
Blair's droopy-eyed, heavily drugged features loom up at
MacReady through the window.
MACREADY
How you doin', old boy?
BLAIR
(softly)
I don't know who to trust.
MACREADY
(humoring)
Know what you mean, Blair. Trust is
a tough thing to come by these days.
Just trust in the Lord.
BLAIR
(beat)
Watch Clark.
MACREADY
What?
BLAIR
Watch him close. Ask him why he didn't
kennel the dog.
Blair's face disappears from the window.
CUT TO:
Harsh and grey. Getting very dark as winter takes a stronger
hold. Bennings is dumping the trash in a large hole in the
snow which acts as the trash dump.
Bennings finishes and drags the empty bins past Palmer and
Childs, who are fixing the wounded choppers.
CLOSE ON THE DOGS' TRACKS in the snow. They lead from the
kennel's open stairwell and out onto the ice. All the men
have gathered.
CLARK
All three of them took off.
MacReady is writing down what appears to be a list on a pad.
DR. COPPER
How long do you suppose they've been
gone?
CLARK
I haven't seen them since their last
feeding. Could be as much as twenty-
four hours.
MACREADY
They couldn't have gotten that far
in this weather.
Garry and several others turn to MacReady quizzically.
GARRY
You're not thinking of going after
them, are you?
MACREADY
I am going after them.
NORRIS
What in the hell for? Even if Blair's
right -- they'll just die out there.
No food. They're over a thousand
miles from anything.
PALMER
Chopper aren't going to be ready for
days.
MacReady hands his list to Bennings.
MACREADY
Get these things out of supply and
meet me over by the snowmobiles.
GARRY
You're not going to catch them in
one of those with the start they
got.
MACREADY
Palmer, how long would it take you
to strap those big four-cylinder
carburetors on?
PALMER
(grins)
Oh, I got you. Not too long.
MACREADY
Then get a move on. Childs, come
with me.
He puts his arm around Childs and pulls him along. The others
watch them walk off, a little bewildered.
GARRY
(shouting after them)
Besides, what are you going to do
when you catch up to them?
Bennings is reading MacReady's list.
BENNINGS
Holy shit.
(hands list to Garry)
Whatever he's going to do, he ain't
fucking around.
of the large torch. A fierce stream of flame bursts from its
nozzle.
Pull back. The stream has shot out some fifteen feet.
Childs has been modifying it.
CHILDS
I can get maybe another five or six
feet out of it.
MACREADY
That's good enough.
CLOSE ON PALMER
as he works on the snowmobiles. Into frame rolls a wheelbarrow
on sleds. A box marked DYNAMITE is its most prominent article.
Pull back. Bennings reads off the list of supplies.
BENNINGS
All right... Box of dynamite... box
of thermite... three shotguns... box
of flares... two flare guns... thirty
cans gasoline... and a case of
alcohol.
MACREADY
Let's load 'em.
The two vehicles rip across the hard, flat ice, bolstered by
the added horsepower. They follow the still visible dog tracks
in the snow.
CUT TO:
THE SUN
sliding across the horizon, signaling midday. The snowmobiles
whoosh past. Bennings drives the one loaded with supplies.
MacReady and Childs double up on the other.
CUT TO:
MACREADY
steadying his binoculars, while Childs drives, spots something
up ahead. The vehicles slow down and come to a halt. Something
lies just ahead of them in the whiteness, in the middle of
the dog tracks.
THE MEN
kneel down by the "something." It is the half-eaten remains
of a dog. Its hind legs and lower stomach picked clean. Its
ripped hide, flapping in the wind. Its top half missing.
CHILDS
What is it?
MacReady follows the line of continuing dog tracks.
MACREADY
Maybe dinner.
BENNINGS
Dogs don't eat each other.
MACREADY
(beat)
I know.
CHILDS
Where's the other half?
MACREADY
Probably the next meal.
MacReady moves to the snowmobile and grabs a two-gallon can
of gasoline. He turns to Bennings.
MACREADY
Where these tracks headed?
BENNINGS
Nowhere... Just straight to the ocean.
A beat as MacReady takes this in. He pours the gas over the
remains and sets it aflame.
MACREADY
Let's move.
Childs and Bennings are not that anxious to continue.
CHILDS
They could be hours ahead of us,
Mac.
BENNINGS
Gonna get dark soon, too. Supposed
to be fifty below tonight.
MacReady gets on and revs up the engine.
MACREADY
Turn back if you want.
Childs and Bennings return shrugs.
CUT TO:
THE SUN
making its last pass, rolling off the horizon. Only a slight
orange hue left.
CUT TO:
THE SNOWMOBILES
move slower, positioned on either side of the tracks. The
tracks abruptly change direction. The men come to a stop.
It is much colder now. Their beards, a mask of white powder.
MacReady surveys the new direction. They are headed toward a
far-off ridge of bluffs. Large, windswept mounds of ice.
CUT TO:
THE SNOWMOBILES
as they move through a valley of newly-formed dunes and tall
ice cliffs. The last of the sun obscured, the headlamps are
turned on and pointed at the tracks.
The men look behind, in front, and from side to side, as
they proceed cautiously through the maze. Up ahead MacReady
spots:
A DOG
It sits, its back to them, unconcerned, heedless of their
arrival. It is munching on the other half of the dog carcass.
The men stop their machines some twenty yards from it. They
are hemmed in at the valley's narrowest point.
Childs, carrying the torch, and MacReady, armed with a
thermite bomb, wade awkwardly but carefully toward the animal
in their snowshoes. Bennings stands back by the snowmobiles.
Childs and MacReady spread out some dozen feet from the dog.
It continues to pay them no mind, content to chew its food.
CHILDS
Where's the other one?
Bennings surveys the tops of the snow bluffs that encircle
them with his flashlight.
MACREADY
(to dog)
Where's your buddy, boy? Huh?
No response. MacReady searches the near vicinity with his
light. All three are growing uneasy.
MACREADY
Let that thing fly, Childs. Don't
let up until he's ash.
Childs turns on the gas and lights the tip.
Bennings is still watching the bluffs. Something from beneath
the snow reaches up and grabs his feet. He is ripped back
down through the hard snow in one incredibly powerful motion.
He screams, his head the only thing sticking out of the ice.
Childs and MacReady turn, confused, unable to see anything
be Bennings' screaming head. They rush toward him.
MacReady stumbles.
The sound of a snapping, a crackling to MacReady's rear.
He freezes; turns back to the dog. Its back is still to him;
its coat of hair sticking up like that of a porcupine. It
snarls; its face turns slowly toward him.
Its skin splitting; its mouth ripping open wildly.
MACREADY
Childs!!
Childs stops, confused as to who to help first. He notices
the dog hunched and ready to spring. He steps back toward
MacReady. The dog/Thing leaps for MacReady; an incredible
jump of some twenty feet.
Childs lets loose a blast, hitting the dog in midair; the
force of the spray knocking it back and tumbling to the ice
in flames.
MacReady throws his thermite canister. It discharges and
engulfs the screeching animal in fire.
BENNINGS
howling in pain. The ice underneath him thrashes violently.
Childs and MacReady stand by helplessly, unable to see what
has him or what action to take. Childs moves closer to help.
MACREADY
(pulls him back)
Stay back!!
Bennings' head disappears with a sudden jerk through the
ice. The ice continues to rumble like boiling water, moving
in different directions. Part of Bennings' body pops up in a
different area and is just as quickly pulled back down.
MacReady and Childs watch on in frustration and anger.
CHILDS
What we going to do?!
MACREADY
How the fuck do I know?!
Bennings' head and shoulders then surface near one of the
snowmobiles. Something has him. Unclear as to what. The jowls
of a dog. But huge. Bennings' heavy clothing begins to rip,
tear, as if his skin underneath was bulging out. The jowls
seem to be absorbing his head.
MacReady runs for the snowmobile.
MACREADY
Torch them!!
CHILDS
But...
MACREADY
He's gone already! Do it!
Childs blasts away. The ice begins to melt as Bennings and
whatever has him catch fire. A screeching.
MacReady grabs cans of gas from the snowmobiles. Suddenly a
steel-like, arachnid-shaped arm shoots out in pain and with
incredible force pierces the fiberglass chassis of the
snowmobile. MacReady is knocked back. He recovers and dumps
cans of gasoline on the writhing mess.
He dives and rolls away from the lunging appendage.
He and Childs watch on as Bennings and The Thing roar in
flame. Behind them, the other dog/Thing continues to burn.
The screeching, mewing and gurgling wails on, all about them.
They look to each other in disbelief, their faces illuminated
by the flickering flames. The strident sounds beginning to
subside.
THE SUN
Its slim, orange arc sets, signaling the start of the Vernal
Equinox. And the beginning of six months of darkness.
CUT TO:
MacReady, waist-deep in trash and snow, searches for
something.
It is the dead of winter. Six months of darkness ahead. Palmer
fights the cold as he works dismantling the engine of the
helicopter.
He frowns, searching for something.
PALMER
(mumbles)
Where's that magneto? Can't find a
darn thing around here any more.
MacReady and Sanchez are foraging through the trash dump.
MACREADY
Look for shoes, too. And burned cloth.
A siren goes off, signaling the end of a twenty-minute period.
Sanchez pulls himself out of the trash dump.
Palmer carries a large part of a helicopter engine toward
the compound.
Nauls wearily approaches Blair's tool shed with a tray of
food. He hears a pounding from within.
NAULS
I got your goodies, superdude.
He peeks in through the opening in the boarded-up window.
Blair is nailing himself in from the inside. He looks pretty
crazed.
NAULS
What you doin'?
BLAIR
Nobody's getting in here. You can
tell them all that!
NAULS
Well, who the hell you think wants
to get in there with you?
Nauls slides the tray in the slot. It is immediately shoved
back out and topples onto the ice. Some of the food has
splashed on Nauls' heavy coat.
NAULS
Now why'd you go and...
BLAIR
And I don't want any more food with
sedatives in it. I know what you're
up to. Don't think I don't. And if
anyone tries to get in here -- I've
got rope. I'll hang myself before it
gets to me.
NAULS
You promise?
Nauls picks up the tray, heads back mumbling.
NAULS
Crazy white scientist motherfucker...
Palmer works on the snowmobile. Sanchez resumes searching
through the trash.
MacReady, Palmer and Sanchez heed the call and head for the
compound.
MacReady and Nauls, wearing their snowshoes and using flares
for light, pull themselves along the steadying rope that
leads to Blair's shed. They are careful to keep an eye on
each other as they move along.
Sanchez heads off in the direction of another shack.
CUT TO:
Nauls and MacReady arrive at Blair's shack. They peer in
through the spaces between the boards.
A weak light burns as Blair is seated eating out of a can. A
hangman's noose dangles from the ceiling nearby.
MACREADY
Hey, Blair!!
Blair jumps in fear, spilling his can.
MACREADY
Has Fuchs been out here?
Blair approaches the boarded-up window. He looks haggard and
afraid.
BLAIR
I've changed my mind... I'd... I'd
like to come back inside... I don't
want to stay out here any more...
Funny things... I hear funny things
out here.
MACREADY
Have you come across Fuchs?
BLAIR
Fuchs...? No, it's not Fuchs... You
must let me back in... I won't harm
anyone... I promise...
MACREADY
We'll see...
He and Nauls trudges off. Blair shouts after them.
BLAIR
I promise! I'm much better now! I'll
be good!! I'm all better!! Don't
leave me here!!
The winds are thick and vicious now. MacReady and Nauls pull
themselves along the rope fighting their way up the slope. A
violent gust sends MacReady's body horizontal, but still
hanging onto the rope. The wind slaps him back down. His
flare and torch tumble back toward Nauls.
Nauls saves the torch from rolling down the hill.
MacReady, lying vulnerable, watches Nauls pull his way toward
him. He tenses. Nauls reaches him. A beat. He hands back his
torch. Relieved, MacReady pulls himself upright.
as they reach the top. The remaining flare their only light.
Very dark. They stand on either side of the door. MacReady
shoves it open. Pitch black inside. MacReady flips the light
switch. Doesn't work.
A strong driftwind streams snow across the ground obscuring
everything but the very top of the buildings.
The siren screams.
The wind rumbles. The storm is at its peak. MacReady, Childs
and Nauls, guided by their flares, pull themselves along the
steadying rope, headed, for Blair's shack.
BLAIR'S SHACK
The door is wide open. They pause by the entrance, trying to
balance against the wind. They enter.
The explosion echoes behind them. The men pull along. Their
heads jerk in circles, searching into the blackness.
Some twenty yards to their rear something swooshes down,
severing the line. The wind sends the men tumbling along the
ice. Childs loosens the line and is blown away, rolling out
of sight.
MacReady and Nauls have lost their torches. They pull
feverishly along the ground trying to make it to the compound.
The screeching closes in behind them. MacReady loses his
grip on the rope and is blown toward the main building.
He crawls along looking for an opening.
Nauls slides near the outside entrance to the dog kennel.
He climbs down through the open stairwell.
He lights his fuse, drops in the stick, turns and runs.
Half of The Thing's grotesque and angular torso bolts up
through the hole, howling in fury. An appendage springs
outward and winds around MacReady's jacket, hissing like
acid into the fabric.
An immense explosion. The hydrogen tanks send a white fireball
fifty feet into the sky. The Thing's body disintegrating
almost immediately.
The force of the blast sweeps MacReady off the roof. He and
the severed appendage crash to the hard ice in flames. He
rolls over and over trying to smother the fire and tear off
the insidious limb.
CUT TO:
The fires smolder on. Bright embers dance in the blackness --
pushed by the soughing wind.
FADE OUT:
THE END
Thing, The
Writers : John W. Campbell Jr.Bill Lancaster
Genres : ActionHorrorSci-FiThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb