Gideon's bare feet are resting on reddish dry earth. Gideon
is sitting in his backyard under a fruit tree with a Bible
resting in his hands.
His house is a small, neatly painted bungalow in South
Central Los Angeles. Corn, tomatoes, other vegetables grow in
the yard. Chickens scratch around.
He slowly awakens; his hands are trembling. He looks around
and sees the chickens. He looks up at the sky and sighs, with
some relief.
SUNNY, Gideon's grandson, five years old, has been watching
him from the back window of the house. He leaves the window.
Gideon looks over at the chickens, scratching around in the
garden. He calls to them, but they don't respond. He puts his
shoes on and walks towards the back door of the house.
Entering the house, he stops and waits inside the door
peeping out. In a sort of devilish manner he talks to
himself.
GIDEON
Spoiling the little foxes that
spoil my vines.
Shot of the backyard. Nothing. Suddenly, with the grace and
suspicion of alley cats, kids jump over Gideon's back fence,
look around timidly, and start climbing up his fruit tree.
Gideon walks down the steps slowly while humming in a deep
voice. He turns the water on and walks over to the tree,
trapping the kids. Dangling legs, hanging from the tree, try
to scurry up the tree to safety. Gideon sprays the tree with
water. Wet kids fall out of the tree and in one motion leap
the fence. Gideon cuts the water off and slaps the dirt off
his hands. He is quite pleased with himself.
One of the wet kids is watching Gideon as he goes back inside
the house. The boy signals the others who slowly follow in
single file. They jump the fence and climb back up the tree.
They let their half-eaten fruit fall to the ground.
SKIP BAKER, who is thirteen, crawls out of his pigeon cage,
holding two birds that he throws up in the air. He climbs
upon the garage roof and throws rocks at the birds to keep
them flying. He WHISTLES and YELLS at them.
CLOSE UP OF BIRDS FLYING
As the birds circle Skip's house, they do backward rolls and
death grips. Skip throws more rocks to keep them flying. The
rocks land on Gideon's roof.
The SOUND of a person trying to learn how to play a TRUMPET
breaks the pleasant SOUNDS of the pigeons popping their wings
and flying in circles over the house.
A group of kids walking by Rodney's window shout insulting
things about his horn playing.
KIDS
Shut up! Go help your mama wash
dishes!
Two uniformed Police Officers stand impatiently at the door.
A SLOW CLOSE UP DOLLY SHOT OF SUZIE'S HANDS DROPPING SEEDS IN
THE GROUND.
Gideon is raking out the chicken coop. He puts the rake down
and walks over to the garden and watches Suzie plant seeds
for a while.
GIDEON
Instead of standing here doing
nothing, I better give those
chickens some scratch before they
start cackling.
OLD JOHN is pushing his cart up the alley. Old John's face is
washed so clean that it shines. His pants are dirty and his
cart is full of odds and ends of no value. He looks to be
about seventy and fit. Old John throws a sack on Gideon's
fence.
Suzie,is bent over a plant that she is tying to a stick. She
looks up and sees the sack on the fence. A smile appears on
her face. She goes over to the fence.
Old John is about to take up his journey when Suzie sticks
her head over the fence.
SUZIE
How are you?
OLD JOHN
Tolerably well. I brought you some
more rabbit manure for your roses.
SUZIE
It is so considerate of you.
Gideon sticks his head over the fence.
GIDEON
Well, well, look who is taking up
all the sunshine. Brother John, how
are you doing?
OLD JOHN
I'm still here.
Suzie leaves the two men talking.
GIDEON
Tell me something. How do you get
energy to stay on the move all day?
OLD JOHN
You couldn't sit on your rump under
my daddy's roof. No sir. If you
couldn't outwork his mule, you
wasn't worth the salt you put in
greens. You had to wake up looking
for something to do. I was raised
as a mule and now I'm a rolling
stone.
Suzie sticks her head over the fence and hands a bag of red
tomatoes to Old John.
OLD JOHN (CONT'D)
I didn't mean for you to pay me for
that.
SUZIE
I know you didn't but you have been
so thoughtful.
OLD JOHN
But when your sunflowers come up,
I'll pay you for them.
SUZIE
I planted a row just for you and
you don't owe me anything.
HIGH ANGLE SHOTS
off in the distance, a man is cutting his lawn. Gideon and
Suzie are working in their garden. Other couples working
their gardens. Two young men are working on their car, which
is creating a lot of smoke. A group of girls are sitting on a
porch trying to sing while one of the smaller ones is trying
to learn a step.
Skip is on the roof with his radio listening to rap music
while his birds circle over head. From time to time he throws
a rock at them.
A sack appears on Gideon's fence. The sound of Old John's
cart is heard rattling off.
Babe Brother's car, a new Audi, is parked out front.
Linda is in the front seat reading a magazine while Sunny is
asleep in the back seat. Babe Brother sticks his head in the
window.
BABE BROTHER
Why don't you come in for a while?
LINDA
I would like to finish reading
this. What would I talk about? I
haven't read this month's almanac.
I don't care to hear about how the
corn was this fall or how to get
rid of gophers by putting garlic in
their holes. They pride themselves
in making life hard and that's not
my cup of tea.
The trees are barren, which gives them an unfriendly look. As
we LOOK at the ground, a man's distorted shadow stops in the
frame.
DISSOLVE TO:
A shadow of a man appears on Gideon's porch. The camera tilts
up to HARRY MENTION, a very dark-looking, ageless old man
carrying several boxes held together by a cord. He looks
exhausted from his journey. He looks in his address book and,
satisfied that he reached the right house, he rings the
doorbell.
A few of the houses have lights on. Suddenly, Gideon's
rooster starts to CROW. A dog starts to bark and a garbage
can is knocked over. Bedroom lights in almost all the houses
in the neighborhood pop on. The voices of neighbors
complaining are heard.
Gideon and Suzie are stepping off the porch. Harry is
standing behind the screen door.
Gideon and Suzie get in Junior's car. Junior, Pat and Rhonda
wave to Harry as the car pulls away.
Harry slowly walks along the rows in Suzie's garden. He
stands by the chicken cage. Suddenly, the chickens start to
run about and CACKLE as if a dog had gotten in.
Harry turns from the chicken coop. He stands still. Sunny is
hiding behind a bush.
Sunny steps around the bush. Harry looks at Sunny with such
concentration that Sunny takes a step backward as if getting
ready to defend himself.
MRS. BAKER, a black woman in her early thirties, comes out on
the back porch. She shakes out a rug. She stops shaking the
rug and stares at Harry.
Harry becomes aware of Mrs. Baker's stare. He comes to
himself and smiles at her.
Rodney walks around in the yard BLOWING his trumpet as loud
as he can. The SOUND of the trumpet frightens Skip's birds.
Harry and Gideon are walking along a railroad track. The sun
is blinding. The heat makes the asphalt Appear to turn into a
lake off in the distance. Gideon appears exhausted; beads of
sweat continually form on his forehead. He fans himself with
his hat. Harry is unaffected by the hot temperature.
HARRY
I can sit here and look at train
tracks all day. We laid enough of
them, didn't we? So many memories
are stretched along tracks like
these.
Gideon looks down the tracks. A bowl of dust stirs off in the
distance. The hot temperature makes the tracks appear liquid.
The tracks begin to twist and bend. Off in the distance,
faint images of men laying track to a song.
Gideon is standing with his hat in his hand. His posture is
that of an extremely old man.
GIDEON
In weather like this, you cannot
walk around bare-headed.
He wipes the sweat from his hat band.
HARRY
We'll go a little farther. The walk
will do us some good.
M.C. slams the door to his car and hurries up the steps,
leaving HERMAN, in spite of his bad condition, to get out of
the car the best he can. The car door almost knocks poor
Herman over. M.C. seems rather youthful because of his energy
and awkwardness. He is a large muscular man.
Herman is a dried-up man with nothing, not even a shadow. He
has a racking COUGH.
Herman is still trying to get out of the car.
A mother leaves with her baby wrapped in a blanket. The kids
surround her, wanting to see the baby.
Junior is taking the back door off to paint. Harry helps him
carry the door and lay it on a saw horse.
JUNIOR
I appreciate you lending me a hand.
That lazy ass brother of mine was
suppose to help me.
HARRY
Well some folks are still waiting
for their comeuppance. Don't take
me wrong but you can't judge people
by how you act. You're a caring
person.
JUNIOR
He should be caring. That is not
too much to ask.
HARRY
Ya, but you can't do the shuffle
with one leg. You and your wife, in
your spare time, work with the less
fortunate. Now I'm not talking
about you and what you do but some
folks that always run to help the
victim, deep down are attracted to
pain and suffering and love to be
near the dying.
JUNIOR
All the people working with us are
really doing it 'cause they hate to
see suffering.
HARRY
You never know what's in the heart
and just because you can cry
doesn't make you human.
Gideon and Sunny are in the garden digging for worms. The
chickens
GIDEON
I think we have enough. So now tell
me a story.
Gideon is sitting on a rock by the lake. His image is
reflected in the lake. He is asleep. Sunny is putting new
bait on one of the reels and with a whip of the pole, he
casts to the center of the lake. He leans against a tree.
Sunny looks at his sleeping grandfather. Gideon has his pant
legs rolled up. His socks have lost their elastic. His head
is resting on his chest.
Sunny goes near the water.
GIDEON
Be careful of the water.
Sunny looks back at his grandfather, who appears to be
asleep.
DISSOLVE TO:
There is one fish in the bucket.
DISSOLVE TO:
WIDE ANGLE SHOT FROM HIGH ANGLE
Gideon and Sunny are sitting next to each other. The lake
reflects the sky: a deep red. The eerie sound of a long train
whistle breaks the silence.
The sounds of the party drift out from the house as Gideon,
Linda and Babe Brother talk.
GIDEON
Tell me, how come me and Suzie have
to be mother and father to your
child? You never take the boy to
the park, circus or anything. If we
did not take him to church, he
wouldn't have any sense of
religion.
LINDA
I think forcing him to go to church
when he really doesn't understand
is not saving his soul. When he
gets old enough to make up his own
mind about religion, that will be
better. It will be his intellectual
decision.
GIDEON
Is that the way your parents raised
you?
BABE BROTHER
Why, you don't want us to bring him
over?
GIDEON
No, it's that when do you have time
to be parents to him? You guys
don't pick him up until nine, ten
at night. You are into yourselves,
as the saying goes. Spend some time
trying to be parents. Take him to
the mountains, fishing. You ought
to let him get to know nature.
BABE BROTHER
Well, you are his grandfather. He
is supposed to spend some time with
you. You're supposed to show him
those woodsy things and this and
that.
GIDEON
Junior spends time with his child.
BABE BROTHER
Oh here we go with that.
Gideon, Babe Brother and Linda are just standing, facing one
another. Suzie comes out on the porch.
SUZIE
Do you want your coat? It's cold
out here.
GIDEON
No, I'm too hot now.
SUZIE
You better be careful. You'll get a
stroke arguing.
GIDEON
I wouldn't care if I drop dead if
he learn something from it.
(beat)
Son, you make me wish I was dead.
SUZIE
Gideon, don't say things like that.
BABE BROTHER
Why does he always pick on me?
LINDA
He is just being like all parents,
concerned about the ones they love.
BABE BROTHER
I don't need that kind of love. And
I don't want to be reminded all the
time that Big Mama's grandmother
was born in slavery. If you really
care about me, just tell me how I
can make money.
SUZIE
Babe Brother, I'm going to take my
hand and hit you across your mouth.
LINDA
He doesn't mean what he says.
GIDEON
Let us go back in before the night
of celebration becomes a night of
me killing my son.
SUZIE
No. Before anyone moves, you two
shake hands and don't carry it any
further.
Linda gives Babe Brother a jab with her elbow. His hand
reaches out to Gideon.
The pigeons take to the air like an explosion. The chickens
start to CACKLE and run about as Harry reaches for one with
his cane. The SOUND of the boy next door practicing with his
trumpet adds to the bedlam.
Suzie is standing on the steps, shouting to Harry. The noise
of the panicked chickens and the boy playing the trumpet next
door drown out Suzie's voice. Not getting Harry's attention,
she hurries down the steps.
Harry has caught a hen that is SCREAMING her head off. He
looks around and finds Suzie hurrying towards him.
SUZIE
Can you watch Gideon for a while?
One of the girls is going into
labor. Junior is going to drive me
over.
HARRY
You just run along. I'll fix him
his soup. He will be all right.
Suzie is walking slowly up the steps.
Harry, Okra and Herman are trying to catch another chicken.
Herman is COUGHING badly and Okra is out of breath.
OKRA
You think old Gideon is going to
live to see this month out?
HARRY
When I came upon the valley of
bones, the serpent said, "Make this
your home. Dry as my soul be,
heaven is lost to thee." We all got
to make way.
Harry puts the rooster face to the ground and draws a
straight line. Harry lets the rooster go, but the rooster
stays motionless, unable to move.
HARRY (CONT'D)
A chicken hates to see the preacher
coming to dinner.
Herman hands Harry the ax. Harry is poised over the chicken
with the ax, appreciating the moment. Harry raises the ax.
The SOUND of Rodney starting to practice his trumpet brings
the rooster out of the trance.
Before Harry can react, the rooster jumps away.
OKRA
Herman, you will have to catch the
next one 'cause I'm out of breath.
HERMAN
If I have to chase after one, we
won't eat.
A sack drops over the fence. Okra limps over to see what is
in the bag. He uses a stick to open the bag. He doesn't like
what he sees and throws the bag back over the fence.
Gideon is being helped up the steps by his sons.
Five weighty Women, dressed in church robes, and the Preacher
walk up Gideon's steps.
Suzie invites the church members in.
PREACHER
Sister, we've come to see how you
were doing. We came to ask if we
could pray over Gideon.
The boy on the gray mule doesn't have a shirt on. A light
mist like rain covers him. Gideon walks along the picket
fence towards the boy on the mule.
Ahead of Gideon seems to be a puddle but as he approaches, he
discovers that it is an abyss. The boy and the mule on the
other side fade away. Everything FADES TO BLACK.
Rhonda and Sunny are looking under a strawberry plant. Sunny
has strawberry stains around his mouth and on his shirt.
Rhonda is putting her strawberries in the bowl. After getting
a bowl full, they lay on the grass, eating strawberries while
looking up at the clouds slowly drifting by.
Babe Brother is driving along a country road while Harry,
sitting in the front seat next to him, yawns. Harry is tired.
HARRY
Let us walk awhile. I grow weary
when I sit still too long.
Babe Brother's car stops in an orchard-like area.
Babe Brother and Harry get out of the car. They walk on a
path that takes them under low hanging tree limbs. It gets
darker as they go deeper into the orchard. Babe Brother finds
the going rough and loses his footing.
HARRY
Give me your arm lest you fall.
Harry has to help him stay on his feet. Babe Brother finds it
necessary to take Harry's arm. Babe Brother stops and Harry
walks a few more steps ahead and waits for Babe Brother. Just
ahead sitting on a branch is a huge white owl camouflaged by
tree branches.
BABE BROTHER
I could swear I heard my son call
me.
HARRY
You probably heard the wind
stirring up those dead leaves over
there.
BABE BROTHER
I heard his voice as clear as day.
I better get back. Maybe something
is wrong.
Babe Brother turns and starts hurrying back before Harry can
object. He walks slowly after Babe Brother who is doubling
the distance between himself and Harry as he runs through the
orchard to his car. Harry stops and looks around.
There is a man lying on a bus bench with his belongings. A
spotted dog is standing guard next to the bench. The dog's
reflection is caught in a puddle of water. The dog has
circles and sixes painted over his body.
Old John taps on the bench with his pipe. The man lying on
the bench stirs and gives Old John a wave to indicate that he
is alright. Old John slowly gets his cart moving again.
Babe Brother drives around the block past Junior's house.
Babe Brother sits in his car with the windows up. Junior
tries to talk to him but Babe Brother will not roll down the
windows. He just stares at Junior, who is getting angry.
JUNIOR
Roll down the window and let me
talk to you.
Babe Brother only stares at him. Junior gets more violent and
starts to shake the car.
Pat calls from the doorway.
PAT
Stop it Junior!
Rhonda is painting her fingernails. Sunny watches her. She
looks around to see if any adult is watching. She tries to
talk Sunny into letting her paint his nails. He refuses but
she tries to pull his hand towards her. He fights his way
free and stands up and kicks the bottle of nail polish over.
RHONDA
Mama, come see what Sunny did.
Harry is sitting by the bed, just visible through the window.
He seems restless.
There is only one hen left in the coop. The garden is full of
weeds. The sunflowers are bent by the force of the wind. A
bag is thrown over the fence.
The shadows of pigeons flying overhead race along the ground.
DISSOLVE TO:
It is raining hard. Babe Brother gets out of the car. Running
to get out of the rain, he slips and falls; he tries to get
up but slips and falls again. He gets up and walks slowly up
the steps as if he doesn't care whether he gets wet or not.
Junior is carrying a roll of roofing paper. Pat, Rhonda,
Linda and Sunny run to the porch to get out of the rain.
Junior stacks the roofing paper in the corner of the porch
and stamps the mud off his shoes.
Everything is wet from the night's rain. The garden looks
more like a graveyard. Moisture drips from the sunflowers.
Gideon's nervous looking rooster jumps the fence and starts
to CROW.
Skip is out early throwing rocks at his birds. The rocks land
on Gideon's roof.
Babe Brother and Junior help Suzie out of the car. She has
her left hand bandaged. They are extremely exhausted. They
walk up the porch to find Harry holding the door open.
HARRY
I can't believe what I heard took
place.
A crowd of people are standing around looking at Gideon's
house.
Rhonda is sitting next to Sunny on the front porch. She has
an angry expression. Sunny is trying to please her by
offering her his airplane.
He pushes the airplane near her and she pushes it back with a
violent shove. He persists in offering her his airplane.
A crowd of people is still standing around in front of
Gideon's house.
MAN
Hey boy, you still got that dead
man in your house.
Sunny and Rhonda don't respond. A middle-aged woman,
VIRGINIA, one of Gideon's neighbors, passes Sunny and Rhonda,
knocks on the screen door and goes in.
