LEGEND "PRESENT DAY"
A fountain of humanity bubbles up from the escalators to the train platform.
Businessmen take their last desperate drags of their cigarettes... Women
traveling with children herd their luggage and offspring into tight shapes as
they move... College students with backpacks look around dazed at the various
track numbers.
ANNOUNCER(o.s.)
Last call track three,
Amtrak Clocker making it's
final stop at Philadelphia's
thirtieth street station.
First two passenger cars
only. First two cars only.
A face inside the train watches the stream of passengers emerging from the
escalators. DAVID DUNNE, a man in his early forties, rest his temple against the
glass and quietly observes the movement outside.
The train starts to pull out.
CUT TO:
LEGEND "1969"
A hazy afternoon. A fair has come into town. They have set up in the vast parking
lot of the local high school.
A line of women has formed in front of the portable bathrooms.
The striking African American woman we saw giving birth is now standing in line.
She is older and somehow more beautiful.
She stands with a skinny, almost ethereal looking African American boy. The boy
wears a metal brace on his leg. THE EIGHT YEAR OLD ELIJAH holds two oversized
stuffed animals in his arms. He looks back over his shoulder as THE SOUND OF
VOICES YELLING IN EXCITEMENT FILL THE AIR. His eyes dance over the many colorful
rides in the parking lot.
The door opens to one of the portable bathrooms. A woman steps out.
Elijah's mother touches his head and enters the three foot square plastic
bathroom. She turns back and gives him a look.
MOTHER
We'll play the water pistol
game next.
Elijah nods, "Yes" happily.
The mother closes the cubicle door. Elijah is left alone amongst the line of
women. They stare at him blankly. Their eyes moves over his leg brace. Elijah
doesn't like it. He moves away from the line.
A CRESCENDO OF CHEERS RISES IN THE AIR FROM SOMEWHERE IN THE FAIR. Elijah follows
the voices. He carries the stuffed animals through the crowds of people. CLICK.
CLICK. CLICK. His metal brace sounds as he walks.
For a moment, he sees nothing but bodies all around him.
He emerges amongst a huddle of teenagers who wait at a turnstile.
A man in a red and white striped coat takes their tickets and waves them in.
Elijah looks up and sees the sign above the turnstile... "The Hurricane."
He watches the teenagers giggle as they each into a grey cup-like seat. They pull
the metal bars down in front of them.
The man in the red and white stripes leaves the turnstile.
Elijah stares up at the multi-colored sign. Beat. He moves quickly. Ducks under
the turnstile and climbs onto the platform.
Elijah finds and empty circular seat. He slips inside the gray metal compartment
and sits. He pulls down the rusted metal bar in front of him.
He looks around at all the excited faces. His eyes fill with excitement too.
His small hands feel the cold metal of the interior of the compartment. His
expression changes.
Elijah looks to the stuffed animals in his arms. He presses them to check their
softness. He places the stuffed animals on either side of him on the seat. He's
wedged in between them. Feels good.
He reaches out and touches the hard rusted metal bar in front of him. Elijah
looks a little anxious. Beat.
He pulls off his sweater and wraps it around the bar. It goes around twice before
he ties the arms together. He checks its softness.
Elijah looks around the customized cup-like compartment he sits in. He smiles an
eight year old smile of pride.
AND THEN HE HEARS HIS MOTHER'S VOICE.
He searches around and finds her walking in the waves of people. He hears her
calling.
MOTHER
Elijah...
She moves in his direction by chance. She finds herself at the entrance to The
Hurricane ride. She looks up at the sign above the turnstile. Her worried eyes
immediately start searching the young faces in the gray circular compartments.
Her eyes meet Elijah's. He waves. Her face goes very still.
A HUGE ROAR OF MACHINERY as the ride starts up.
Elijah yells to his mother as the platform starts running.
ELIJAH
I won't get hurt momma! I'm
safe!
HIS WORDS GET EATEN UP BY THE CHEERS OF THE TEENAGERS AND THE GRIND OF MACHINERY.
The platform spins. He sees a glimpse of his mother and the red and white striped
man. She's pointing at Elijah.
The platform turns... Elijah sees a flash of the red and white striped man's
angered face as he yells at the frantic woman next to him.
And then the ride speeds up.
The gray circular seats start to spin on their own. The teenagers CHEER.
Elijah's eyes fill with joy as the wind plays against his face.
Suddenly the ride changes directions. The cup-like seats get jerked. Everyone
grabs the metal bars to hold on.
Elijah laughs as he smashes into the stuffed animal on his right. It cushions him
and then falls to the floor of the compartment along with the other stuffed
animal.
Elijah's expression becomes tense as his compartment spins. His hands slide over
the rusted metal bar as the sweater unravels.
Elijah looks around... a sudden panic enters his eyes.
THE BLURRING IMAGE OF HIS MOTHER NOW IN A GROUP OF RED AND WHITE STRIPED MEN.
THE SOUND OF MACHINERY GRINDING IS HEARD as the ride changes directions
suddenly.
Elijah's hands rip away from the bar as he gets thrown to the side of the
compartment. His shoulder and arm takes the brunt of the impact. WE HEAR
SOMETHING CRACK.
TEENAGERS SCREAM IN EXCITEMENT. ELIJAH JOINS THEM WITH SCREAMS OF HIS OWN.
The ride spins its passengers. Elijah's small face looks up at the swirling
clouds in a mixture of agony and terror.
The ride changes directions.
Elijah is thrust forward. He hits the rusted metal bar square against his chest.
WE HEAR MORE CRACKS.
The world spins. Giggles and yells fill the air. Elijah slumps down onto the
floor of the compartment.
And then finally, the grind of the machinery slows and then comes to a gradual
stop.
THE TEENAGERS MOAN.
Elijah is facing directly up at the sky. The clouds now move slowly over him.
WE HEAR COMMOTION. AGITATED VOICES. HIS MOTHER'S DESPERATE VOICE.
MOTHER(o.s.)
His bones... He's not
well...
HER VOICE GETS LOUDER AS SHE MOVES CLOSER TO THE PLATFORM.
MOTHER(o.s.)
Elijah baby...
Then her face appears as she finds the cup-like seat Elijah is in. She begins to
scream.
Elijah lays on the bottom of the compartment. One arm is clutching his chest. The
other is curved horrifically like an "s". His mouth is open. His eyes are
bulging. The last thing we HERE ARE THE SHORT DESPERATE BREATHS of an eight year
old child about to black out from the pain.
FADE TO BLACK:
WE EMERGE FROM BLACK to find news vans and reporters lining the street across
from a church. They have been cordoned off by a handful of police. Mourners are
recorded as they emerge from their cars and enter the church.
David is among the arriving crowd.
MAN(o.s.)
David Dunne!
At hearing his name, David turns back as he walks. He can't tell which reporter
called his name because all of them seem to react. A storm of camera movement as
the group jockeys for the best angle of his troubled face.
David passes a magnetic board as he enters the church. It reads, "Services for
the families and friends of train 177."
CUT TO:
Rain falls in sheets in the stadium.
David stands at the entrance to a tunnel that empties out onto the field. He
stands in an imposing dark green rain poncho and hood. The poncho almost touches
the ground. The word 'security' on the back has almost faded away. We can barely
see David's face under the hood.
There is a football game in progress on the enormous field. The players seem
unusually small. There is no one in the stands. About four hundred people are on
the sidelines of the field watching the players. A soggy limping banner stretched
behind them declares, "The Pennslvania Elementary School Championships."
David's eyes scan the tiny figures on the field. His eyes come rest on a surge of
activity on the sidelines. Beat.
David steps out into the rain.
CUT TO:
A handful of red faced fathers are yelling at each other. They're in each other's
rain soaked faces. The scene feels on the verge of physical violence.
David and another security guard jog over. David steps in the middle of the tight
circle. The men stop yelling in the presence of stadium security. Everyone just
stands in the rain glaring at each other. Beat.
DAVID
You know what I think about
to calm down? I think about
those big fat, hundred and
twenty pound turtles that
live in the islands. Those
suckers never get angry,
never get in fights and live
longer than all of us and
all they do all is sit on
the beach and hump other
turtles.
(beat)
Why don't we take a second
and think about the turtles?
Nobody moves. Rain washes over the agitated faces. A father breaks the moment.
FATHER
Yeah Jerry why don't you
think about the fat ass
turtles... Like your fat ass
son on the field
jeopardizing the rest of our
chances at a fucking
championship.
David tenses. Everyone looks to JERRY. A bald man who stands just a foot away.
Jerry nods to himself. Looks like he's going to say something. Instead he lunges
forward and smashes a HEADBUTT to the man who spoke to him.
David tackles Jerry hard and fast. He drives him into the ground.
Blood starts rushing out of the nose of the dazed father who took the headbutt.
The other fathers start yelling and pushing each other. The remaining security
guard calls on his walkie for assistance.
David keeps Jerry immobilized in a powerful arm and head lock that holds the
man's enraged face hard into the wet surface of the field.
David's eyes are not on Jerry. They gaze out onto the field where twenty two
elementary school boys have stopped playing and are standing frozen, helmets off,
rain washing over their faces. They watch in horror as their parents attack each
other on the sidelines.
CUT TO:
Elijah walks across the playground. He's very wary of the other children running
about him.
He walks towards the bench with the present on it. Takes a seat. Puts the package
on his lap. It's flat. The edges of the bend down over his thin legs.
He undoes the white bow. He peels off the clear tape holding the brown paper
together. He unfolds the paper. Beat.
Elijah stares down at the single comic book in his lap.
He feels the shadow of his mother. She takes a seat next to him.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER
I bought a whole bunch.
They'll be one of these
waiting for you, every time
you want to come out here.
Beat.
ELIJAH'S MOTHER
They said this one has a
surprise ending.
Elijah looks to his mother. His intelligent piercing eyes take her in for a
moment.
He looks back down at his lap. He opens the first page...
DISSOLVE TO:
Three chairs have been placed on the walkway in front of the bay window of the
store. The words, "Limited Edition" are etched in the window.
David, Jeremy and Elijah are seated watching the people stroll by. Elijah's cane
is on his lap.
Jeremy sips a drink in a paper cup.
ELIJAH
So let's get some of the
usual questions out of the
way. Why am I using a cane?
Raise your hand if you were
thinking that.
Jeremy raises his hand.
ELIJAH
I fractured my leg. It's the
fifth time I've done that
particular bone. It didn't
really heal well this time.
ELIJAH
Raise your hand is you're
wondering who the hell
breaks the same bone five
times?
Jeremy and David raise their hands.
ELIJAH
I have something called
Osteogenesis Imperfecta.
It's a genetic disorder. I
don't make this particular
type of protein very well
and it makes my bones very
low in density, very easy to
break. I've had fifty-four
breaks in my life. I have
the tamest version of the
disorder... Type one.
(beat)
There are type two, type
three, and type four. Type
four's don't make it very
long...
(beat)
That ends our lecture on the
medical anomaly known as
Elijah Price.
Elijah stares at his two rapt listeners.
ELIJAH
How certain are you that you
haven't been sick in your
life?
DAVID
Seventy-five percent.
ELIJAH
Seventy-five percent? That's
not nearly good enough for
me. I'm extremely skeptical.
DAVID
Skeptical about what?
ELIJAH
Your answer to my question.
It's one thing to have never
been injured in your life,
but to state that you've
never taken ill, well that's
a whole new level.
JEREMY
Dad's been injured.
Beat.
ELIJAH
What's he talking about?
DAVID
In college. A car accident.
ELIJAH
Was it serious?
David nods.
JEREMY
He couldn't play football
anymore.
Beat. Elijah looks shaken.
ELIJAH
I assumed because of the
train.
DAVID
You assumed wrong.
Elijah closes his eyes. When his eyes open, the life force in them has
diminished. Beat.
ELIJAH
It's over.
(beat)
You can go now.
Elijah uses his cane to get up and walk back through the doors of the store.
VETERAN'S STADIUM - AFTERNOON
Sunday afternoon. The cavernous stadium opens up into a picture perfect blue sky.
The Philadelphia Eagles pro football players are in uniform and doing stretches
on the field. The opposing team warms up on the other end of the field.
The sixty thousand seats are already half filled as fans stream in on every level
of the stadium.
CUT TO:
A line of ticket holders snakes towards two turnstiles where stadium crew are
ripping tickets.
David Dunne stands to one side with two other security guards.
The fans moving through the turnstiles are clad in all types of Eagles
paraphernalia. A group of girls carries a homemade banner that David reads as he
tilts his head sideways. "We sleep with quarterbacks," is written in block
letters.
David stares at a woman carrying a newborn infant in her arms. The baby is
wearing an eagles uniform.
The WALKIE TALKIE on David's hip bursts to life. He pulls it off his hip an
listens.
WALKIE
Dunne, it's Jenkins, we got
a guy at gate 17C with a
bogus ticket. Says he knows
you. He won't tell me his
name.
DAVID(into walkie)
What's he look like?
WALKIE
He's got the most beautiful
eyes... The hell kind of
question is that? He's a
guy.
DAVID(into walkie)
Send him packing. I'm not
walking all the way over
there.
WALKIE
Consider him packed. I
didn't like his attitude...
Struttin around with a cane
and shit.
Beat.
DAVID(into walkie)
Hold up Jenkins...
CUT TO:
David finds Elijah waiting to the side as the crowds funnel through the gate.
Elijah offers his hand as he walks up. David doesn't take it.
ELIJAH
They said I couldn't get in
with my ticket.
Elijah offers him the ticket. David inspects it.
DAVID
It's for last week's game.
ELIJAH
I've come to understand
that...
(beat)
An ill advised purchase in
the parking lot.
David hands Elijah back the ticket.
DAVID
What do you want?
ELIJAH
Not money.
(beat)
But I appreciate your
healthy cynicism in the
manner. It will be wise for
both of us to proceed with
greatest caution.
DAVID
We're not proceeding
anywhere together.
ELIJAH
We've already begun.
David looks around.
DAVID
One more time. What is it
you want?
Beat.
ELIJAH
Why is it, do you think,
that of all the professions
in the world... you chose
protection?
DAVID
Are you for real?
ELIJAH
You could have poured coffee
in Starbucks, you could have
learned to install track
lighting in office
buildings, you could have
told people their horoscopes
on the internet... You could
have been one of ten
thousand things... but in
the end, you chose to
protect people. You made
that decision... and I find
that very, very interesting.
(beat)
Now all I need is your
credit card number.
Beat. Elijah smiles.
ELIJAH
That last part was a joke.
David fights it. But he smiles anyway. Beat.
DAVID
I got this job because my
college coach called the guy
who manages the stadium.
There's no hidden meaning to
it.
David's walkie makes NOIES on his hip.
DAVID
They need me at the gate.
David stares at Elijah leaning on his walking stick.
DAVID
Did you really want to see
the game? I can get you in.
CUT TO:
The line of fans outside the gate has tripled in size and intensity.
David and Elijah move along the line towards the turnstiles.
DAVID
It gets heaviest ten minutes
before kickoff.
David bumps a guy in line wearing an army jacket. David looks backs at him and
continues walking.
David moves to a security guard near the turnstiles.
DAVID
Why don't we pat down?
David walks to his post near the gate and faces the crowd. Elijah moves next to
him.
DAVID
Just give me a minute.
ELIJAH
Is there a problem?
DAVID
That guy in green. Sometimes
people carry weapons in
here. Then they drink too
much. They're team isn't
doing so well, bad things
happen... We do random pat
downs of the crowd to
discourage people from
carrying.
(beat)
If he's carrying, he'll step
out of line.
Elijah observes as a security team pats down random males as they move through
the turnstiles.
The GREEN ARMY JACKETED MAN moves forward in the line. His face is blank as he
watches the pat down ahead of him. He's twenty people from the turnsstile.
David eyes him. Fifteen people away... Ten...
The man coughs and steps out of the line. Elijah watches the green army jacket
melt into the thick part of the crowd and disappear as it moves away from the
stadium.
CUT TO:
Elijah's walking stick makes RHYTHMIC CLICKS on the concrete parking lot.
The figure in the army jacket seems to move farther away with every step.
Elijah starts breathing harder. He pushes himself to move faster. He avoids the
hard chrome bumpers and tailpipes that jut out from the cars as he quickens his
pace through the lot.
He gains on the army jacket.
ELIJAH(calls out)
Hold up for a second!
The man in the army jacket turns as he reaches a subway entrance that marks the
end of the parking lot. He looks back at Elijah for a beat. Doesn't like what he
sees. He disappears into the subway entrance.
Elijah quickens into a jog now. He hasn't done this in a while and it's painful.
He makes it with great strain to the subway.
He looks into the entrance...
A steep flight of stairs leads to the subway floor. The tail of the army jacket
is glimpsed before it disappears.
Elijah breathes hard as he takes hold of the railing.
ELIJAH(calls out)
I just want to ask you
something!
Elijah's VOICE ECHOES down the stairs. No response.
Elijah starts his descent.
THE SOUND OF A SUBWAY PULLING IN ROARS UP THE STAIRS.
Elijah has to move fast. He takes the steps with less and less hesitation. He's
moving with great agility... and then his foot catches on a step.
His hand slips away from the railing...
He falls down the remaining part of the stairs. The FIRST SICKENING CRACK is
heard when his hand reaches out to stop his fall.
The SECOND CRACK IS MORE LIKE A CRUNCH AS HIS LEG LANDS AWKWARDLY ON THE METAL
STAIRS.
He comes to a stop in a pile on the dirty gum stained floor of the subway
landing. His jaw is locked in a HORRIFIC SCREAM THAT GETS EATEN BY THE ROAR OF
THE SUBWAY TRAIN PULLING IN.
His contorted anguished face sees the turnstiles of the subway upside down. The
green army jacketed man looks back at Elijah with a blank expression pushing
through the turnstile.
The last thing Elijah sees before he blacks out, is the tail of the man's coat
riding up as he move through the turnstile. The SILVER HANDLE OF A GUN peeks out
from the belt of his pants.
CUT TO:
David's neighborhood turns crimson as the day comes to an end. The Septa bus
pulls to a stop in front of a public high school. David steps off, still in his
security clothes. The bus pulls away as he hears his SON'S VOICE.
David turns to the high school football field behind him. A group of children are
having a touch football game. Jeremy runs out from the huddle across the field to
David.
JEREMY
Was it sold out?
David nods, "No."
DAVID
You know how mad your mom
would be if she knew you
were playing football?
Jeremy nods.
JEREMY
Are you going to tell?
David nods, "No."
JEREMY
You want yo play the last
downs? We got a big guy like
you. You can play on
opposite sides.
David looks to the fields to see a very muscular college age man in sweats who
stands with the other children.
JEREMY
He's Potter's cousin. He's
the starting corner back for
Temple University.
David stares at his son.
JEREMY
He going pro in the draft.
They say he can run the
fifty-
DAVID
In under six seconds.
(beat)
I've heard.
David watches the cornerback being surrounded by kids. He's letting a couple of
the kids feel his flexed bicep.
DAVID
I'm going to go in.
JEREMY
Just play one set of downs.
I told them you were great.
DAVID
Why'd you do that?
JEREMY
Just one-
DAVID
Jeremy.
(beat)
I'm going in. I have to do
some things.
JEREMY
What things?
DAVID
I'm going to work out.
JEREMY
I'll help you.
DAVID
There's nothing to do.
Jeremy turns back to the children and waves.
JEREMY(yells)
I can't play! I'm working
out with my dad!
Jeremy turns back to his father and takes his hand. David looks down at his son
who waits patiently.
CUT TO:
David and Jeremy are seated on a bench at a Septa bus stop. No one else is
waiting with them.
Jeremy talks without making eye contact with his dad.
JEREMY(soft)
It was Potter and another
guy I play football with.
They were messing with this
Chinese girl. She's kind of
fat. She doesn't talk to
anybody.
(beat)
I tried to make them stop.
They kept pushing me down
and wouldn't let me get up.
Beat. Jeremy's VOICE STARTS TO TREMBLE SOFTLY.
JEREMY(soft)
I thought maybe cause you
were my dad, I thought I
might be like you.
Jeremy finally looks up. Tears in his eyes.
JEREMY(soft)
I'm not like you.
David moves closer to Jeremy on the bench.
DAVID
You are like me. We both can
get hurt. I'm just an
ordinary man.
(beat)
I'm not what you think I am.
Jeremy just stares at his father. Beat.
JEREMY
Why do you keep saying that?
CUT TO:
People move up and down the streets outside the storefronts. David is one of
them. He waits to cross the street. He sees movement inside the Limited Edition
window.
CUT TO:
David exits the Limited Edition and moves down the street lost in this thoughts.
He bumps a man in a jacket and tie walking in the opposite direction.
FLASH CUT: THE SAME MAN STANDS IN A BAGGY SWEATER. AGAINST A PARKED CAR HE'S
HOLDING SOMETHING SHINY AND METALLIC IN HIS HANDS. HE INSERTS IT IN THE HALF INCH
GAP BETWEEN THE GLASS OF THE DRIVER'S WINDOW AND THE DOOR. THE DOOR UNLOCKS.
THE MAN LOOKS AROUND QUIETLY BEFORE ENTERING THE CAR.
SLAM CUT BACK TO THE PRESENT:
David looks over his shoulder at the conservative looking man in a shirt and tie
walking down the street.
David Dunne is shaken. He turns and keeps walking.
CUT TO:
Rain falls like gunfire from the sky.
David's car pulls into the massive rain station parking lot.
David steps out and pulls the hood of the poncho over his head.
CUT TO:
A steel fence leads to a set of stairs that travel down to the dozens of
interconnected tracks below. David walks down about forty feet. A fenced gate
with a lock stops his progress.
David looks through the fence down to the tracks. Just to the side is a
construction site. Cranes and lifts and various equipment stand idle in the area
next to the section of train wreckage that has been brought to the station
grounds for dismantling and salvaging. The bent shapes of the train pieces can
only be glimpsed in outlines as they sit in the darkness, hundreds of feet away
from the immaculately lit train station.
Beat. A HUGE METALLIC CRACK ECHOES THROUGH THE TRAIN YARD as David kicks open the
fence door that holds him back from going down.
CUT TO:
Frightening twisted pieces of metal glisten in the rain. David walks along the
body of the caved-in passenger car.
The passenger car is split in two. Just before the tear, along the window line,
the windows have been crushed in. A huge hole has been ripped below the windows
exposing the ravaged interior.
David stands before this heavily damaged area of the car. He just stares at the
wreckage. Water falls off the rim of his hood in front of his face.
His eyes drift over the ominous pieces of deformed metal. He takes a couple slow
breaths as THE SOUNDS OF HARSH RAIN FADE AWAY TO SILENCE.
CUT TO:
SILENCE. BLACK. OUR VISION CLEARS TO REVEAL the glazed icy top of a street.
THE SOUND OF DISTANT FIRE COMES INTO THE SILENCE.
A TWENTY YEAR OLD DAVID DUNNE rises to his feet from the ground where he was
laying amongst the fragmented pieces of windshield. He looks down at himself. His
football jacket is torn. So are his jeans... He's trembling slightly, but not
bleeding.
HE LOOKS UP TOWARDS THE NOISES.
About thirty feet away is a Honda, upside down, wrapped around a telephone pole.
It's front is on fire.
Through one of the crushed door windows, WE SEE A WOMAN'S HAND.
Young David heads toward his car. He slips a couple of times on the slick iced
surface of the road.
He kneels down next to the inverted car. He looks in the crushed window frame.
THE FACE OF A TWENTY YEAR OLD MEGAN IS UPSIDE DOWN. She is unconscious.
DAVID
Megan...
She doesn't answer. Her body is twitching as it sits pinned behind the wheel.
David pulls at the handle of the mangled door. It's wedged tight. It won't move.
The heat from the fire is tremendous.
David's powerful arms keep pulling with all their strength.
WE HEAR THE CREAK OF METAL... THE DOOR BENDS UNNATURALLY AND THEN PRACTICALLY
RIPS OPEN.
David leans into the car and unbuckles Megan. He works her out underneath the
steering column. He slides out. Her leg is bleeding.
David picks her up and carries her to the grass next to the road. He lays her
down gently.
DAVID
Megan?
He just stares at her. She doesn't respond.
A LIGHT WASHES OVER THEM. David turns to see a truck approaching up the road.
David waves frantically. The truck slows.
David turns back to Megan. Her eyes are open.
Tears fall from David's face as he moves the hair out of her eyes. She looks at
David.
MEGAN(soft)
I thought I was dead.
Beat.
DAVID
Me too.
The driver of the truck slips and slides his way over to David.
DRIVER
Is she all right?
DAVID
I think her leg is
fractured.
DRIVER
Are you injured?
Beat. David looks at Megan who lays shivering in the grass. He looks back at the
driver.
DAVID(soft)
My shoulder's hurt.
The driver nods.
DRIVER
Hold on. I got a C.B. in the
truck.
The driver moves back to his truck.
David takes Megan's hand in his and waits in the grass by the sight of their car
on fire.
CUT TO:
David stands utterly still in the graveyard of train 177.
CUT TO:
The man in the orange uniform walks in the driving rain down a residential city
block. Almost all the lights in the middle class homes he's passing are off at
this late hour. No one is out walking except him and David Dunne fifty feet
behind.
The orange figure turns the corner onto a block of modest stand alone homes. The
uniformed man walks slower in this block. He looks around carefully as he moves.
He turns into a driveway of one of the homes. He stops and pulls a wad of mail
out of the mailbox.
David stands with the hood of his security coat covering his head and face. He
stands in the shadows and watches silently as the man in the orange uniform looks
over his massive shoulder before turning a knob and entering the white paneled
house through a familiar side door with a screen on it.
CUT TO:
David lands on his stomach with a TREMENDOUS SLAP onto the nylon black tarp.
There's a thin layer of rain water on the tarp's surface. David is laying on his
cheek. Half his face is covered in water.
Beat. David's exposed eye looks around in a daze. The surface of
the tarp gets
pounded by the rain.
David uses his hands to push his body off the tarp. His hands sink into the water
as his pressure pushes the tarp down.
THE FIRST SOUNDS OF NYLON SLIDING AGAINST CONCRETE START.
David stops pushing. His vision catches the corner of the swimming pool as the
tarp slides out from under the sand bags that hold it in place.
The tarp sags. David becomes utterly still. THE SOUND CONTINUES ANYWAY.
One by one the tarp starts sliding out from under the sand bags all around the
edge of the pool.
And then without warning, the tarp caves in. It folds around David as he and the
tarp get pulled UNDER THE COLD DARK WATER.
CUT TO:
UNDER WATER - NIGHT
David's body is tangled in the pool cover. His legs and arms thrash against the
constricting black tarp. He's drowning.
GLIMPSES OF LIGHT FROM THE HOUSE PIERCE THE DARKNESS UNDER WATER. THE BLURRED
IMAGE OF A DISTANT FIGURE HIGH ABOVE ON A BALCONY FLICKERS AND DISAPPEARS.
The last of the tarp slides out from under the sandbags that old it in place
around the edge of the pool.
The rain keeps falling.
The tarp moves like it's alive underwater. It shifts and wraps David tighter with
every movement.
GLIMPSES OF LIGHT AGAIN. TWO SMALL FIGURES NOW STAND IN A BLURRED SILHOUETTE NEAR
THE EDGE OF THE POOL. FLASHES OF SOMETHING SHINY THEY'RE HOLDING... A ROD OR
POLE... IT'S SHAKY NEBULOUS IMAGE WAIVERS IN THE AIR ABOVE THE SURFACE.
David's only free hand reaches for the light. It catches the silver pole.
The tangled mass of David and the tarp are pulled slowly towards the edge of the
pool. David's head and shoulders emerge from the darkness. He takes hold of the
pool's edge.
Huge desperate breaths as he pulls his body out from the water and the grasp of
the tarp. He hauls himself onto the ground.
He sits hunched over in a dark mass, his head down under his hood. The rain
poncho covering him like a blanket. Beat.
He rises to his feet. The water rushes off of him. His breathing is slowing,
calming.
He stands in a silhouette from the light of the house. He turns and looks to the
two small figures standing near the edge of the pool.
The children from the bathroom stand still in the rain. They're holding an
aluminum pole with a brush head for cleaning the pool. They stare up at the
hooded figure.
No one says anything.
CUT TO:
Downtown Philadelphia.
People move up and down the sidewalks in front of the storefronts. David Dunne is
among them.
He crosses the street in front of The Limited Edition. The front doors of the
store are open.
A banner over the door reads, "Annual Sale."
CUT TO:
David emerges from the store slowly. He braces himself against a parked car and
then keeps on walking in a nightmarish daze.
WE PULL BACK as David Dunne blends in with dozens and dozens of ordinary people,
walking on an ordinary street, in an ordinary city.
FADE TO BLACK:
Unbreakable
Writers : M. Night Shyamalan
Genres : DramaFantasyThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb