A quiet upper-middle class neighborhood. The CAMERA is at
the curb, looking down the street. There are no sidewalks.
Trees arch overhead. CICADAS drone on the soundtrack.
The OPENING TITLES briefly FADE IN and OUT, framed by the
trees on either side of the street. Footsteps are heard
approaching.
As the picture TITLE FADES, out of the dark emerges a GIRL
17 years old, carrying schoolbooks. This is JILL. CAMERA
PANS with her ninety degrees as she comes to the front of a
house and stops.
Lights are on in the bottom half of the house, and the
curtains across the windows are open. A single light burns
in the upper right side of the house, presumable in a bedroom,
but the curtains in the room are drawn.
A scene TITLE appears on the lower half of the screen:
8 pm Tuesday, March 23, 1971
The TITLE FADES, and Jill heads up the walk to the front
door of the house.
The light in the upper floor of the house is turned off.
An upper-class neighborhood. The CAMERA is facing down the
street. A car approaches the intersection at the end of the
block, turns and comes slowly up the street.
Because it is not a new car or an expensive car, and because
it is moving at a rate which suggests that its sole male
occupant is looking for house numbers, we can assume that
the DRIVER is a visitor to this neighborhood.
The CAMERA PANS with the car ninety degrees as it turns into
the semi-circular driveway of a mansion and rolls up to the
front door.
A TITLE appears across the bottom of the screen:
4:30 pm Thursday, April 20, 1978
As the TITLE FADES, the driver shuts off the car engine and
opens the door to get out.
CUT TO:
Not a terribly good section of town. We are looking at the
nondescript exterior of a bar across the street.
It is late. The block is virtually deserted. Across the street
is the exterior of a bar -- the same bar Duncan was in
earlier. Some PEOPLE are coming out of the bar. It must be
near closing time. The people turn left and walk away down
the sidewalk. Their voices diminish. Pause.
A car passes. Then the door to the bar opens again and a
woman comes out onto the sidewalk. It is Tracy. She turns to
the right and starts to walk away.
CLOSEUP - DUNCAN
He is standing in shadows across the street, watching her.
A series of shots of Tracy walking home. The CAMERA remains
consistently behind her or off to one side, sometimes DOLLYING
with her behind a row of parked cars, sometimes picking up
her passing reflection in a darkened store window.
The impression this gives is unmistakable. Curt Duncan is
following her. We do not see him, we do not hear him, yet we
know he is there. Often we can sense that the very angle
from which we see Tracy is his POV.
But Tracy is aware of nothing. We know this when the CAMERA
begins to move in front of her, once more becoming an
impersonal observer of her walk homeward, to safety.
Tension mounts as we start to expect that Duncan will jump
out at her from every alley and recessed doorway she passes.
But he doesn't.
Finally, Tracy walks up to the CAMERA at the end of a block
and turns a corner; but the CAMERA HOLDS on the dark street
she has just come up. We hear a cough which confirms that
Duncan is lurking somewhere in the shadows.
Tracy walks up the steps and enters the apartment.
A car pulls into the parking lot behind the station. Clifford
and Garber get out and walk into the building.
As Clifford pulls his car up to the curb, then consults his
legal pad --
CLOSEUP - LEGAL PAD
The top three addresses are crossed out. Clifford underlines
the fourth --
BACK TO SCENE
Clifford looks up from the pad to a bar he has pulled up in
front of -- the bar Duncan was in. It bears the address
Clifford has just underlined. Clifford gets out of his car
and walks up to the bar. A "Closed" sign is displayed in the
window. Clifford knocks on the door. After a moment, Hank
opens the door.
CUT TO:
As Cheater is pushed out onto the sidewalk.
CHEATER
(angry)
All right! All right!
He straightens his rags indignantly, then looks at Duncan
and grins.
CHEATER
Whaddya say, pardner. I'm dry as a
bone. You got any money?
Duncan looks at Cheater distrustfully and shakes his head.
CHEATER
You neither, huh?
(with a laugh)
My name is Morgan, but it ain't J.P.
Guess I better go to work. Take 'er
easy now, pardner.
Cheater shuffles off in one direction. Duncan turns and goes
in the other.
CUT TO:
Duncan is standing on the sidewalk huddled close to a wall.
He is looking up at Tracy's apartment building across the
street.
POV - DUNCAN
Traveling up the wall of the building to the open window of
Tracy's apartment on the sixth floor. SLOW ZOOM IN:
CLIFFORD (O.S.)
Do you think he'll try to see you
again?
TRACY (O.S.)
I don't know. He said he had no place
else to go.
Duncan turns up an alley across the street from Tracy's
apartment building and disappears.
Sound over: knocking on a door.
CUT TO:
Clifford is standing at the door. The "Closed" sign still
hangs in the window. The door opens, and Hank sticks his
head out.
HANK
You again?
CLIFFORD
What are your hours tonight?
HANK
No hours. Bar's closed on Mondays.
CLIFFORD
I want you to be open if that's
possible.
HANK
(closing the door)
No way. Monday's my night off. Come
back tomorr...
Clifford violently pushes the door open. The bartender backs
off, surprised.
CLIFFORD
(through clenched
teeth)
This is tomorrow! Now what are your
hours?
CUT TO:
A series of shots of BUMS, "homeless persons", hanging out,
in alleys, in the doorways of old buildings, sitting on the
sidewalk in front of liquor stores.
Then we see Duncan, alone but looking no different from the
others. He is panhandling PASSERSBY, without much success.
We see him fall into a fit of coughing that incapacitates
him for several seconds. He's obviously getting sicker.
We lose sight of Duncan as our MONTAGE continues. We see
Clifford talking to a BUM, then another. He is passing the
time combing the streets in the neighborhood of the bar.
PARK - DUSK
A handful of BUMS are sitting together on the grass passing
a bottle in a brown paper bag. Duncan is not among them, but
Cheater is there, sitting at the end of the line.
CAMERA PANS from one bum to the next as the bottle is passed.
By the time it gets to Cheater, it is empty. Cheater looks
as if he's about to cry like a baby when a hand enters the
frame from the other side -- the hand holding out to Cheater
a full bottle of wine. Cheater takes the bottle and looks up
gratefully... to see John Clifford standing beside him.
CHEATER
Well! I can't say much for your
protocol, but your timing's dead on.
Here's to you, pardner.
Cheater takes a long drink, then passes the bottle back down
the line.
CLIFFORD
(to all the bums)
I'm looking for an old buddy of mine,
English fella. Name's Crazy Curt.
Any of you guys seen him?
Nobody responds.
CLIFFORD
I owe him some money.
CHEATER
Aaahh. Show me an honest man...
CLIFFORD
(gesturing)
Stands about so. Brown hair. Face
kind of banged up. Was in an accident.
CHEATER
Oh, yeah? I was just with that guy,
not more'n an hour ago. Looked bad.
Crazy Curt, huh?
CLIFFORD
Where?
Cheater scratches his head, and glances anxiously down the
line.
CHEATER
Hell, I can't remember. Prob'bly see
him again though. Tell you what. You
leave the money with me, I'll see he
gets it... as a favor to you.
Clifford shakes his head.
CLIFFORD
I have to talk to him.
CHEATER
Whatsa matter? You don't trust me?
I'll have you know I used to be a
college professor. We can work
together.
Clifford stands to go. The bottle comes back to Cheater,
three-quarters down.
CLIFFORD
Sure. Keep the bottle. I'll be back.
CHEATER
"Long life to the grape! For when
summer is flown, The age of our nectar
Shall gladden our own." That's
Shelley, you know.
Clifford is gone. Cheater takes a long drink and almost
forgets that Clifford was ever there.
CUT TO:
It is lit up inside. The bar is open for business. Across
the street in a dark space between two buildings, Duncan is
waiting, watching the front door of the bar to see who comes
out.
Tracy looks up and down the street, hoping to see Clifford
somewhere, afraid of glimpsing Duncan instead. Then she starts
walking quickly homeward.
Following Tracy to her apartment. We pick up Clifford now,
and we cut back and forth between the two of them -- her
walking quickly, never looking back, and him sneaking along
several hundred feet behind her, looking everywhere for
Duncan, whom we never see.
She walks up the steps and enters.
Tracy's screams carry out into the night as Clifford races
across the street and into the apartment building.
Clifford comes out, looks around and moves rapidly up the
street.
Duncan is hurrying along, dodging in and out of people, trying
to move quickly but not draw attention to himself...
Clifford is travelling along the sidewalk, crossing the
street, looking everywhere...
Duncan is running up the alley. He comes to a stop beside
some piled up trash cans. He leans against the brick wall of
the building, huffing and puffing. He is frightened, but he
feels safe for now. He slowly slides down the wall to the
ground...
FLASH BACK TO:
A freighter, broad and low, arduously cuts through the water.
Early morning mist hangs over the deck which is empty but
for a lone FIGURE standing on the prow.
MIDDLE SHOT - LONE FIGURE
It is Curt Duncan. He is looking out over the front of the
ship. Another SEAMAN comes up behind him and claps him on
the shoulder.
SEAMAN
So this will be your first time?
(laughs)
An old salt like you?
Duncan moves away, wanting to be left alone.
SEAMAN
(still laughing;
slightly punchy)
You'll love it here. It's where they
make the bombs. It's where they make
the planes that carry the bombs; the
planes we saw over Singapore and
Manila.
He walks away laughing.
SEAMAN
There she is. That's America.
DUNCAN'S POV
The coast of Southern California emerges through the mist. A
foghorn blows somewhere in the distance.
CLOSE-UP - DUNCAN
As he peers ahead with inscrutable interest.
CUT TO:
At first all that can be seen is a white blur against a black
screen. The previous sound of a boy crying increases. Then
the blur grows larger, coming more into focus as the entire
screen image moves toward normal definition. Finally, we
know we are back in the alleyway, that it is night, and that
the white blur is actually a little BOY lost, sobbing
uncontrollably.
CLOSEUP - DUNCAN
Awakening to the scene, coming back to reality. He is
confused.
WIDER ANGLE ON DUNCAN AND BOY
The boy continues sobbing, moving about in little circles.
Duncan, amazed at what he sees, slowly crawls out from the
wall on his hands and knees, crawls toward the weeping child,
staring at it with a strange look on his face.
Suddenly the boy stops crying and looks at Duncan quizzically,
hesitantly. They are less than a foot apart, almost face to
face. Together they form a kind of frozen tableau. Something
close to sympathy crosses the killer's expression, and the
boy, likewise, achieves a faint sense of recognition.
Then, just as suddenly, the boy starts wailing again and he
runs off down the alleyway. Duncan watches him disappear.
Then he slowly pulls himself to his feet.
Clifford is coming up the sidewalk. As Clifford crosses the
entrance to an alleyway, the boy comes running out and almost
collides with him. Clifford grabs the boy and looks down at
him. Then he passes the wailing child off on a nearby
PEDESTRIAN and runs up into the alley.
Duncan is hurrying along the sidewalk. Something makes him
look up.
POV - DUNCAN
He is looking at a neon "Jesus Saves" sign above the doorway
to an inner city mission.
BACK ON DUNCAN
As he stares at the sign.
DUNCAN (O.S.)
Hey, Crazy Curt!
Duncan turns to see Cheater elatedly hobbling up to him.
CHEATER
Hail fellow well met, and all that
jazz. It's our lucky day!
(taking Duncan by the
arm)
A friend of your's got money for
you. We got to get back to the park
and meet him.
Duncan pulls his arm free.
CHEATER
C'mon. He'll be comin' for you, Crazy
Curt. S'got some money.
(reaching for Duncan's
arm)
We'll get us a little joy juice.
Duncan pulls free again and heads toward the mission.
CHEATER
C'mon! Hey!! You really are crazy!
C'mon!
Duncan enters the mission and Cheater stands out on the
sidewalk for a moment, bitterly frustrated.
CHEATER
"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks!
Rage! Blow, you cataracts and
hurricanoes, spout till you have
drench'd our steeples and drown'd
the cocks!"
Several PEDESTRIANS stop and gape at this sudden outburst.
Clifford comes out of a derelict hotel, looks up and down
the street and hurries off, not giving up the chase.
Cheater is trudging along the sidewalk, hands in pockets,
head lowered. He looks up and sees something that brings him
back to life.
POV - CHEATER
Clifford is standing on the corner up ahead, looking around.
WIDE ANGLE ON STREET
Cheater calls out and starts to run toward Clifford.
Clifford turns, sees Cheater.
CUT TO:
Clifford runs up the alleyway, looks around and finally
realizes he's lost his prey.
CUT TO:
Duncan is hidden deep in the shadows of a nook between two
buildings, catching his breath. CAMERA MOVES IN on him, and
we see him looking the craziest he's ever been. He shakes
uncontrollably and begins to mumble, softly at first, then
getting louder. He's falling back into the grips of Guy du
Marraux.
DISSOLVE TO:
A. All is still and quiet as soft, warm sunlight pours into
the dirty streets and alleyways. In the background, the bell
tower of the church rises above the skyline.
B. We see a SHOT of the park -- all the bums are asleep.
C. Then a SHOT of the mission -- its front door open, the
sidewalk empty.
D. Then the bar, where the same peaceful mood prevails.
E. Then the alleyway where we last saw Curt Duncan. Now he
is gone.
F. Then the exterior of Tracy's apartment building. Clifford's
car is parked out front.
TRACY (O.S.)
I used to see my two kids every
weekend. They lived in a nice house
with their father, outside the city.
CUT TO:
CLOSE UP on a section of a newspaper lying in the gutter. A
pair of feet enters the frame and stands beside the newspaper.
We hear a familiar cough. Then a trembling hand reaches down
and picks up the newspaper.
Pause. Something in the newspaper has caught his eye. Then
the feet shuffle out of frame.
FADE OUT:
FADE IN:
A modest middle-income neighborhood where young married
couples buy their first home and start their family.
CAMERA is facing down the quiet street. In the foreground,
on the street, two small CHILDREN, a little boy and a little
girl, are playing. They are adorable kids.
CAMERA PANS ninety degrees with the children as they run out
of the street and up the sidewalk to their house.
A TITLE APPEARS across the bottom of the screen:
5 pm Friday, April 28, 1978
TITLE FADES as the children push open the front door and
enter the house.
CUT TO:
Clifford's car is parked in the driveway, and we see him
getting out. He goes to the front door -- the porch light is
on and perhaps one other lamp somewhere inside the otherwise
dark house. He rings the bell, waits, rings again...
Finally the door is opened by the Houseboy.
HOUSEBOY
Dr. and Mrs. Mandrakis are out of
town.
CLIFFORD
For how long?
HOUSEBOY
Three more weeks.
Pause.
CLIFFORD
It's just as well. Will you be here?
HOUSEBOY
Yes.
Clifford takes a business card from his pocket and gives it
to the Houseboy.
CLIFFORD
Here. Call if you need me.
The Houseboy reads the card as Clifford walks back to his
car. Then the Houseboy closes the front door.
Clifford pauses beside his car for a moment, looking back at
the rich, dark home.
CUT TO:
John and Jill walk to the station wagon in the driveway as
Carol shuts the front door in the background. Just before
Jill gets into the car, she takes a look back at the house --
there is a moment's hesitance, and then she gets in the car.
John and Jill pull up in the station wagon followed by a
squad car -- no sirens or lights. They all get out and rush
for the front door.
John pulls out his key to open the door... and discovers
that it's unlocked. Cautiously, they step inside.
