A two-lane road carves through an endless forest of towering
black spruce. A flock of pintails skims over the treetops,
heading south before the first snowfall.
A young BOY (12), undersized and feral, trudges home, bookbag
strapped to his back. Black-haired and pale-skinned, the boy
looks as if he hasn't had a good meal in a long time.
Before we hear anything the boy turns, watching the bend in
the road behind him. After a moment we hear the thrum of a
hard-charging engine.
An Oldsmobile Super 88 rounds the bend, accelerating as it
hits the straightaway. The boy steps away from the road but
the car comes straight at him.
The boy closes his eyes. The Oldsmobile's brakes clamp down
on the wheels and the car shivers to a halt with inches to
spare. Laughter spills from the car's open windows.
Four HIGH SCHOOL LETTERMEN pile out of the car, wearing their
leather-sleeved football jackets. GILMAN, the largest of the
four, shakes his head and laughs.
GILMAN
Kid didn't even move. You see that?
Where's your survival instincts,
boy?
The boy says nothing. He readjusts his bookbag and resumes
his long walk northward.
GILMAN (cont'd)
Hey!
Gilman grabs the boy's shoulder and spins him around-
GILMAN (cont'd)
The hell you going? You hear me
talking to you?
One of the other football players, MASON, walks over and
inspects the boy's face.
MASON
This is the kid whose old man
robbed the truck stop last year.
Gilman curls his meaty hand around the back of the boy's neck
and pulls him closer, scrutinizing him. The four lettermen
tower over the small boy.
I C_ONTTNTT f 1
2.
CONTINUED:
GILMAN
You the one with the convict daddy?
The boy stares back at Gilman, unblinking.
MASON
That's him.
GILMAN
What's the matter, you about to
piss your pants? Answer me.
The boy says nothing, never looking away from the bully.
Gilman presses his fist, adorned with a heavy class ring,
against the.boy's cheek.
GILMAN (cont'd)
You a tough guy like your daddy?
Gilman shoves the boy, forcing him to stumble backwards. The
boy regains his balance, never taking his eyes off Gilman.
GILMAN (cont'd)
You want to play tough guy with me?
Huh?
Provoked by the boy's lack of fear, by the insolence of his
stare, Gilman rears back and punches him in the face.
The boy falls to the ground. Blood spills from a gash in his
cheek where the class ring cut him.
MASON
(a ringside announcer)
Right cross to the face... and he's
down!
The football players laugh, looking down at the fallen boy.
The boy stands. There is still no sign of emotion on his
face. No fear, no anger, no evident pain.
GILMAN
What's the matter? You want some
more?
The boy doesn't look away. The bully swings, cracking the boy
in the side of the head, knocking him down again.
GILMAN (cont'd)
(to his friends)
Let's get out of here.
CONTTNTTF:T) I
3.
CONTINUED: (2)
Walking back to the car, Mason slaps Gilman on the shoulder.
MASON
You gave that little pissant
something to think about.
Gilman grins and looks back at the boy, expecting him to be
sprawled and crying on the ground.
Instead the boy stands again, brushes the dirt off his shirt,
and walks toward Gilman.
GILMAN
You got to be kidding me. I'm gonna
knock the--
But Gilman's words die in his throat as he sees something
impossible happening. The gash on the boy's cheek knits
itself shut, leaving no sign of injury.
Gilman is so shocked he doesn't see the boy's fist whizzing
toward him, striking him in the nose. And then another punch.
And then another.
The boy is far smaller and weaker than Gilman, but he fights
with a ferocity that seems inhuman, punching and kicking and
headbutting, doing whatever it takes to fell his enemy.
Gilman, stunned by the intensity of the assault, goes down,
trying to protect his face from the blur of blows.
Mason tries to pull the boy off his friend and suffers a bite
to the hand. He howls with pain and backs off.
The other two football players, amazed to see their leader
getting pummeled by a boy half his size, watch in awe.
The boy growls as he batters the bully. He grabs Gilman's
collar and lifts the football player's head off the ground,
prepared to deliver the coup de grace with his right fist.
Three bone claws spring from the boy's hand, serrated and
razor sharp.
Everything stops. Mason, clutching his wounded hand, quits
hollering and stares. The other two football players blink
and slowly back away.
Even Gilman, moaning on the ground, hushes and tries to crawl
backwards, away from this beast on top of him.
(("ONTTN11F.1)1
4.
CONTINUED: (3)
But the boy is more shocked than-any of them. He stares with
horror at the claws, this part of him he never knew existed.
He stands and stumbles away from Gilman. Mason runs over,
lifts his punch-drunk friend to his feet, and hustles him
toward the Oldsmobile.
The other football players pile in, slam the doors shut, and
speed off, leaving the boy alone by the side of the road.
The boy stares at his claws and for the first time we see
fear in his eyes. He screams, a scream that echoes over the
black spruce, into the darkening northern sky.
A traveling carnival has come to a seaside New England town.
The brightly-lit Ferris Wheel spins a few hundred yards
inland from the dark Atlantic.
LOCALS roam through the carnival, lining up to ride the Tilt-
A-Whirl. KIDS carrying plumes of cotton candy race from shoot-
'em-up games to free throw competitions.
A CARNY BARKER of the old school, wearing a patched-suit and
a derby, beckons the curious to his attraction.
CARNY BARKER
Come see the notorious Bird Man!
Half-man, half-eagle, is he an
angel from Heaven or a spawn of
Satan? Ladies and gentlemen,
tonight is your last chance to see
the creature you've all been
hearing about:
We follow two BOYS who hand the barker their tickets, pull
aside the curtain and step into the sideshow...
A towering figure in a long black coat looms beside the
trailer's door.
BEAK
Show's over, pal.
VICTOR CREED is shrouded in shadows, but when he grins his
white fangs gleam. He drapes his arm around Beak and drags
the birdman inside the trailer.
VICTOR CREED
Show's never over for you, freak..
An awful, prolonged shriek escapes from the trailer.
The small log cabin sits in a clearing in a jack pine forest.
Winter has come to the north country; the ground and tree
branches are covered with several inches of snow.
Logan chops firewood behind the cabin, splitting the logs
with expert axe strikes, smoking a cheap cigar.
His nose wrinkles as he sniffs the air.
LOGAN.
Smells like government.
Behind Logan, two approaching men in dark suits and black
overcoats glance at each other. Logan, halving another block
of wood, doesn't turn around.
One of the newcomers, STRYKER, was a colonel in the Special
Forces. He still has the look. His hair is cropped short, his
bearing is military, and his blue eyes are fierce.
f r_ONTTNTJF D
9.
CONTINUED:
CHRISTOPH NORD, A.K.A. AGENT ZERO, looks more like a death
row convict than a military man. A family of tattooed spiders
walk down his neck.
STRYKER
(SMILING)
I even showered today.
Logan turns, the axe gripped in his hand.
STRYKER (cont'd)
Been a long time, Logan. You
haven't aged a day. Everyone else
gets old and gray, but not you.
LOGAN
How'd you find me?
STRYKER
We never lost you, my friend. I
believe you know my colleague?
Logan and Agent Zero stare at each other. There is a history
between these two and clearly the memories are not fond.
STRYKER (cont'd)
We're with the Department of
Agriculture now.
LOGAN
Agriculture? You working with
farmers?
Agent Zero grins. There is nothing pleasant about his grin,.
AGENT ZERO
Pest Control Division. Working with
exterminators.
LOGAN
(puffing on his cigar)
Still shooting first, asking
questions later?
In one blindingly fast motion, Agent Zero pulls a customized
automatic from his shoulder holster, fires, and reholsters.
AGENT ZERO
Still smoking cheap cigars?
Logan spits the butt of the severed cigar from his mouth and
clenches his fists.
( C'ONTTNTTFTL'
10.
CONTINUED: (2)
LOGAN
That was a buck twenty-five,
asshole.
Stryker holds up both hands, one palm to Logan, one to Zero.
STRYKER
Boys, please.
(to Logan)
Could we take a minute of your
time?
LOGAN
You're taking it.
STRYKER
We want you back.
Logan turns away from them. He tosses aside the axe, picks up
a load of firewood and . stacks. it beside the cabin.
STRYKER (cont'd)
You're a born warrior. You can hide
up here as long as you want, that's
never gonna change.
LOGAN
Not interested.
STRYKER
It's... creative work, I can assure
you of that. And it pays well.
LOGAN
Already got a job.
AGENT ZERO
Lumberjack. Eighteen grand a.year.
LOGAN
Eighteen five.
AGENT ZERO
You content chopping down trees?
LOGAN
Yeah, I am. It's good work. And I
haven't killed anybody in three
years.
AGENT ZERO
Starting to miss it?
(CONTTNTIRT)1
11.
CONTINUED: (3)
LOGAN
Right about now I am.
Agent Zero grins, enjoying the game. Stryker, seeing that
this is going badly, tries to break the tension.
STRYKER
We're putting together a team. Best
men in the business. Men with...
special qualities. Men like you.
LOGAN
Forget it.
Logan walks around to the front of the cabin. Stryker and
Agent Zero follow. Logan's battered old pickup truck is
parked beside the newcomers' Lincoln.
STRYKER
It's a team of hunters. We're going
after some very bad people.
Logan climbs into the driver's seat.
STRYKER (cont'd)
You read the papers, Logan? They're
killing mutants.
Logan closes the door, turns the key and revs the engine to
warm it. Stryker taps on the window. Logan grits his teeth
and rolls down the window, not looking at the colonel.
STRYKER (cont'd)
Listen to me. They have names. They
have addresses.
LOGAN
I can take care of myself.
STRYKER
All right, forget about yourself.
Your country needs you.
LOGAN
I'm Canadian.
He hits the gas, forcing Stryker to jump back lest the tires
run over his foot. Stryker and Agent Zero watch him go.
12.
Logan parks in the lot of a sprawling brick grammar school.
He gets out of the truck and walks toward the main building.
The school day has ended. STUDENTS meet up with their MOMS or
DADS for the ride home.
As Logan rounds a corner, he stops in his tracks, looking
around. Something's not quite right.
Logan'ducks his head at the last. possible second and a
snowball whizzes past, missing him by inches.
Six FOURTH GRADERS (four boys and two girls) charge at him,
hurling snowballs and screaming.
FOURTH GRADERS
Get him!
Logan jumps back around the corner, out of sight. The fourth
graders chase after him, round the corner with their throwing
hands cocked, ready to launch some serious ice.
Logan is nowhere in sight.
The fourth graders turn in confused circles, searching for
their target, snowballs melting in their hands.
LOGAN (O.S.)
Hey, fellas.
The boys and girls look up and see Logan sitting on a second-
floor window ledge. He has already formed six perfect
snowballs, with which he proceeds to pelt the fourth graders.
The kids run, screaming and laughing, nearly colliding with
Kayla, who rounds the corner and stares up at Logan.
KAYLA
Nice.
Logan, caught with a snowball in his hand, looks sheepish.
LOGAN
They started it.
13.
Viewed from a distance, the little cabin looks warm and
inviting, the firelight shining from the windows.
Something watches from the edge. of the dark woods. Something
monstrous, its black talons carving gashes in the trunk of a
pine tree.
16.
Kayla drops Logan off at the logging camp. The site is
already loud with motorized activity. TRIMMERS remove the
limbs from fallen trees. TEAMSTERS in forklifts load logs
onto flatbed trucks.
Logan comes around to the driver's side window, holding his
orange Husqvarna chainsaw in one hand.
KAYLA
Be careful.
Logan bends forward to kiss her on the lips. He turns and
walks towards a crew of LUMBERJACKS circled around a
SUPERVISOR with a clipboard.
Logan turns when he hears a honk. Kayla leans out the window.
KAYLA (cont'd)
I love you, by the way.
Logan notices that dozens of lumberjacks are watching this
scene. He clears his throat.
LOGAN
T love you, too.
SUPERVISOR
(thick Maine accent)
We all love you, Casanova, but
could we get to work here? We need
to let some daylight in the swamp.
The lumberjacks laugh loudly. Damage done, Kayla waves a
cheerful goodbye and drives away from the camp.
Logan trudges into the circle of lumberjacks, who make kissie-
kissie sounds and slap his shoulder.
SUPERVISOR (cont'd)
All right, I need a team of
choppers for 3B, that's gonna be
Phelan, Marcuse, Van Mier and
Logan. Two teams for 3C...
Kayla steers the pickup along the access road leading away.
from the logging camp.
C'C)NTTNTTF.n )
17.
CONTINUED:
An eighteen-wheel flatbed loaded with trimmed logs blocks the
road. Men in reflective vests stand on the flatbed, securing
the load with chains.
Kayla hits the brakes and checks-her watch. She's late. She
taps the horn.
A FOREMAN ambles over to her, in no particular rush.
FOREMAN
Can't move the truck till the
load's tied down.
KAYLA
Please? I'm already late.
FOREMAN
Not gonna happen, ma'am...
The foreman thinks about it, sighs, and changes his tune.
FOREMAN (cont'd)
(yelling to truck driver)
Hey Zeke! Pull this mother over.
Lady's got to get through.
Moments later the truck rolls forward, enabling Kayla to
scoot through in her pickup. She toots her horn and waves.
KAYLA
Thanks, fellas.
Logan and three other lumberjacks-- PHELAN, MARCUSE, and VAN
MIER-- tramp through the woods towards their designated area,
carrying their chainsaws and helmets.
Phelan, whiskey-bellied and flushed from the exertion, has
fallen behind.
PHELAN
You all want to ease the pace a
little bit? Trees ain't going
anywhere.
Logan, in the lead, stares at a crude smiley face carved into
a tall pine tree. His gaze travels from the carving to
something sitting on the forest floor.
(CON'TNt1F.n I
lB.
CONTINUED:
PHELAN (cont'd)
What you got there?
The other lumberjacks gather around Logan. A severed bear's
head, haloed by buzzing flies, rots in the sun.
PHELAN (cont'd)
Goddamn.
VAN MIER
Hunter?
MARCUSE
Why would a hunter leave the head?
LOGAN
Bullet didn't kill this bear.
(BEAT)
Claws did.
Logan, hearing a noise the other men can't, rises from his
crouch. He looks to the west, listening carefully.
PHELAN
What's the matter--
Logan holds up a hand: quiet. He hears a distant scream. A.
voice he knows better than any other.
He runs, leaving his astonished co-workers behind.
No one can run through the woods faster than Logan and'Logan
has never needed to run faster. He vaults fallen trees, ducks
under branches, accelerates when he hits the access road.
Logan sees the pickup truck in the distance. Even a hundred
yards away he can tell that something is.wrong.
It seems impossible that he could run any faster, but now he
does, reaching the truck in seconds. He sees the claw marks
gouged through the steel hood.
He sees.the driver's side door tossed onto the asphalt twenty
yards. from the truck.
And finally he sees Kayla, curled in the fetal position on
the side of the access road. Blood puddles beneath her. Her
skin has already begun to lose its 'color.
He runs to her, kneels beside her body, hands checking for a
pulse, listening for breath, trying desperately to find any
sign of life in her lifeless form.
LOGAN
Come on, you're okay. Say
something. Say something, darling.
Say something. Kayla, come on.
He cradles her in his arms.
LOGAN (cont'd)
You're okay. You're okay.
(CONTTNTTRN'
20.
CONTINUED:
He rocks back and forth, her lifeless body clutched tightly
in his arms, his eyes clenched shut.
The veins bulge in his neck, every muscle in his body tenses,
as if there were a beast inside him trying to break free of
his skin.
Logan hits the snow-covered pavement hard, splinters -of glass
in his hair, his face bloodied from dozens of small cuts.
Creed steps out the bar. As Logan struggles to his feet Creed
kicks out his legs and drops him again.
Creed crouches beside Logan, grabs the back of his head, and
smashes his face into the concrete.
The beating gets savage, creed hammering Logan again and
again. Logan's healing factor cannot keep up with the
violence being done to his body.
VICTOR CREED
Time you got declawed, kitty kat.
Creed lifts his heavy black boot and brings it down hard on
the extended claws of Logan's left hand.
I CONTTNTTFT)1
23.
CONTINUED:
Logan howls as the-bone claws shatter. Creed repeats the
process on Logan's right hand.
VICTOR CREED. (cont'd)
You were a tough little guy. But
there's always someone tougher.
Creed plunges his clawed hand into Logan's chest. Logan
gasps, eyes widening. His tolerance for pain is world-class
but this is another level of suffering.
VICTOR CREED (cont'd)
And it's always me.
Creed stands, staring down at Logan's unmoving body. Sirens
moan in the distance. Creed walks away.
Logan bleeds in the snow. We rise above him, higher and
higher, his battered body dwindling as we rise with the
smoke.
Logan storms out of the hospital, followed by Stryker.
STRYKER
He escaped from an ultramax
penitentiary in Nevada last year.
Started murdering mutants. Shape-
changer in New Mexico, pair of
telekinetic twins in California--
Logan turns on Stryker, grabbing the colonel by the throat
and shoving him against a lamp post.
LOGAN
Three years I been here. Three
years everything's good. Nobody
knows me. And then one day you show
up and the next day she's dead.
STRYKER
I came to warn you--
LOGAN
You knew he was coming.
f CONTTNfJRD 1
25.
CONTINUED:
Stryker shakes his head as well as he can with Logan's hand
on his throat. Stryker's face is turning red.
LOGAN (cont'd)
How did you know?
STRYKER
He got the List.
LOGAN
What list?
Stryker chokes, gasping for air. Logan eases up on his grip
but doesn't release the man. Stryker takes a deep breath.
STRYKER
The List. Every known mutant in
North America. Government's been
keeping it for years. Names,
addresses, everything.
LOGAN
How did he get it?
STRYKER
Someone must have leaked it to him.
There are people in Washington who
want to see you all destroyed.
Logan releases Stryker. The ex-colonel straightens his jacket
collar and composes himself.
LOGAN
Creed's a mutant, too.
STRYKER
Apparently he doesn't have much
tribal loyalty.
Logan turns and walks away. He looks like a homeless man, his
clothes torn and bloodied, his hair disheveled. He walks
fast. Stryker calls after him.
STRYKER (cont'd)
Do you have a plan, Captain?
LOGAN
I'm not in the Army anymore.
STRYKER
Do you have a plan?
CnNTTNT TF.Tf 1
26.
CONTINUED: (2)
Logan turns and stares at Stryker.
LOGAN
I'm gonna track him down and I'm
gonna end him. That's the plan.
I
STRYKER
You already tried that. He's a
hundred miles away and you're
walking out of the hospital.
Logan's fists are clenched. He's ready to hammer Stryker into
the ground, but the older man does not back down.
STRYKER (cont'd)
You can't beat him. Not the way you
are right now. You've probably gone
your whole life without losing a
fight, but I'm telling you now, you
can't beat him.
(BEAT)
Unless I give you the tools.
Logan glares at Stryker, still itching for immediate revenge.
STRYKER (cont'd)
You come with me, I promise you two
things. You will suffer more pain
than any other man could bear. And
you will have your revenge.
Logan stares into Stryker's eyes.
A black helicopter lands on a concrete helipad inside the
walls of the massive compound.
SENTRIES armed with assault rifles man the guard towers,
scanning the perimeter with binoculars.
Logan, Stryker and Agent Zero step out of the helicopter.
Logan glances around the foreboding place before following
Stryker inside the main building.
A full moon shines down on the frozen landscape. Logan has
exited the Alkali Lake complex beyond the high walls of the
compound. The lake itself shimmers in the moonlight.
Logan stares at the lonely moon. A wolf howls in the
distance.
His breath rises above him in the cold air; his wet hair
freezes. Ignoring the gusting wind and bitter chill, he runs
through the snow toward the distant woods.
Logan runs. Pine trees tower above him. He enters a clearing
where the virgin snow glitters beneath the moon.
He stops moving and peers through the darkness. He smells
something coming closer.
A pack of GRAY WOLVES emerges from the woods, surrounding
Logan. Snow dusts their fur. They look hungry, their blue
eyes unblinking as they watch this pale interloper.
The LEADER OF THE PACK, a muscular brute far bigger than his
comrades, snarls at Logan. Logan stares back at the wolf.
The wolf jumps at Logan, fangs bared, aiming for the man's
throat. Logan sidesteps and the wolf hurtles past, skidding
on the snow when he lands.
Logan and the wolf circle each other, looking for weakness.
The wolf gnashes its wet teeth and pounces again.
Man and beast battle in the moonlight, a shadowy combat of
ferocious velocity, of gleaming fangs and gray fur.
The wolf lunges for Logan's throat again, but this time Logan
catches the wolf in one hand and slams it to the snow.
The wolf, desperate to escape, rakes Logan's arm with his
claws. Logan ignores the bloody welts.
rC)NTTNTTF.T) )
38.
CONTINUED:
His face is close to the wolf's face and they stare into each
other's eyes, predator to predator.
Snikt!
Logan presses the claws of his left hand to the wolf's
throat. The wolf quits fighting, mewling submissively. He
goes slack in Logan's grip, rolling over to signal surrender.
Logan stands over the newly-subservient alpha wolf. The other
wolves in the pack stare at the strange champion.
Intense light shines on Logan's face. He turns and sees that
he's surrounded by a dozen SOLDIERS wearing tactical armor.
Powerful flashlights are mounted to the barrels of their
guns, which are pointed at Logan.
The wolves flee, dodging through the pines, their paws
kicking up snow.
SOLDIER #1
Put your hands in the air!
Logan tries to gauge his enemies, staring into the harsh
lights- He growls.
SOLDIER #1
Hands in the air, now!
Logan charges at the soldiers.
The soldiers fire their weapons. These are not rifles but
high-powered Tasers. Twelve darts sink into Logan's skin,
each connected to a silvery wire.
Thousands of volts of electricity course through Logan's
body.
(fC)NTTNIJF.n
39.
CONTINUED:
Gritting his teeth and fighting through the pain, he slices
the twelve wires with his claws and advances on the stunned
soldiers.
An old Chevrolet pickup truck rattles down a snow-covered
road that passes acres of frozen farm fields. A Good Sam Club
sticker is pasted on the rear bumper.
Agent Zero lies on his belly three hundred yards from the
farmhouse. He lowers his sniper rifle and speaks into his
headset.
AGENT ZERO
Weapon X is in the farmhouse. He
just murdered.two civilians.. Fire
at will.
An APACHE LONGBOW helicopter streaks overhead, fifty feet
above the ground.
The Apache circles the farmhouse.
The Apache fires multiple Hellfire rockets, which blast out
of their launchers and rip into the farmhouse.
The old Hudson homestead collapses as the explosions blow out
the roof and the support walls.
AGENT ZERO
Locate the target and fire again.
The Apache circles the smoking ruin where the house once
stood. No sign of Logan is visible in the scorched debris.
The Apache hovers near the sheep barn, rotor blades fanning
the rising smoke.
Logan, claws extended, skin blackened with soot, jumps from
the roof of the barn. He lands on the helicopter windshield.
Agent Zero watches the Apache plummet to the ground. He
snorts with amusement and activates his headset.
AGENT ZERO
Your boy just took down fifty
million dollars worth of hardware.
Guess I got to do this myself.
46.
AGENT ZERO
Don't care what kind of bones he's
got. Fifty caliber bullet through
his eyeball ought to do it.
STRYKER (O.S.)
Nord, goddamnit--
AGENT ZERO
I'm losing you, boss.
Agent Zero clicks off his headset and.raises the sniper
rifle, searching through the smoke with his scope.
AGENT ZERO (cont'd)
(muttering to himself)
Come out and play...
Logan emerges from the Apache's wreckage and runs toward the
sheep barn door.
A bullet cracks him in the forehead and Logan falls backwards
into the snow, stunned. For a few seconds we can glimpse the
adamantium of his skull.
His healing factor takes over and his skin begins to knit
itself back together.
Logan combat crawls inside the sheep barn.
47.
Logan bursts out of the barn on the Harley. The tires spin on
the snow but Logan is an experienced rider. He steadies the
bike, steers it onto the blacktop and accelerates, heading in
the opposite direction from Agent Zero.
Agent Zero grabs his rifle and jogs over to a black SUV with
tinted windows and off-road tires.
Logan speeds down the road, Agent Zero in hot pursuit. Zero
gains ground, both hunter and quarry racing past 100 MPH.
Agent Zero fires six shells in rapid succession. Hundreds of
steel pellets scream over the motorcycle, perforating the
face of a smiling farmer on a fertilizer billboard.
Logan turns and sees the SUV closing on him. Agent Zero rams
the bumper into the Harley and Logan very nearly loses
control, managing to right the bike at the last second.
( C'ONTTNTIRF 1
48.
CONTINUED:
Logan accelerates and opens up thirty yards of breathing
room. He turns and sees Agent Zero catching up again.
Logan clamps on the brakes, hard.
He holds out his left hand and extends his claws. The tips of
the blades scrape the asphalt and sparks fly.
The SUV cannot brake in time. As it hurtles past the
motorcycle, Logan's claws hit the SUV's front tire and shred
it instantly. A split-second later he shreds the rear tire.
The SUV totters, falls to its side, and barrel rolls across
the empty road. It ends up on its roof in a drainage ditch,
wheels still spinning in the air.
Logan turns his bike and pulls up next to the upended SUV. He
lowers the kickstand, stands, and walks to the driver's side.
Agent Zero, bloodied and dazed, has managed to push open the
door. He leans out and aims his shotgun at Logan, who slices
the weapon into four pieces with a sweep of his claws.
Logan grabs Agent Zero by the back of the neck and hauls him
out of the car.
LOGAN
Those were good people back there.
Innocent people.
Agent Zero surreptitiously pulls a commando knife from a
sheath on his ankle.
AGENT ZERO
You ever notice good people tend to
die when they spend time with you?
He swings the knife at the side of Logan's neck.`Logan
catches Agent Zero's wrist and slams it against the door
frame.
Agent Zero drops the knife with a pained smile. He didn't
think that would work.
AGENT ZERO (cont'd)
Maybe you should stick with the bad
people. We're more your speed.
LOGAN
I got a message for your boss.
(C'_ONTTNTTF.T) I
49.
CONTINUED: (2)
AGENT ZERO
(SMIRKING)
Yeah? Tell me.
The smirk fades from Zero's face as he sees the adamantium
claws plunging toward his heart.
Logan stands at a pay phone beside the Texaco station,
watching a couple of SKATEBOARD PUNKS practice their ollies.
He punches in a number and waits for the connection.
OPERATOR (O.S.)
Department of Agriculture.
LOGAN
Get me the Pest Control Division.
OPERATOR (O.S.)
I'm sorry, sir, there is no Pest
Control Division.
LOGAN
Why don't you get 'em anyway. And
tell 'em Logan's calling.
While he waits he watches one of the kids attempt a backside
tailslide on the curb. The kid loses his balance and wipes
out, skinning his palms on the asphalt.
STRYKER (O.S.)
Where are you?
LOGAN
(controlled fury)
You shouldn't have killed those
people. All they were doing was
helping a stranger.
We continue to INTERCUT between the gas station and Stryker's
office.
LOGAN
They had nothing to do with this.
You let that mad dog gun 'em down
like they were animals.
STRYKER
I'm giving you an order, soldier!
Return tobase--
LOGAN
Had enough orders for one lifetime.
(BEAT)
I'm going after Victor Creed.
For several seconds there is silence on the line.
STRYKER
We're bringing you in. One way or
another, we're bringing you in.
Logan bows his head, considering his next words.
LOGAN
People like you are always waiting
for the next war. You start one
with me, Colonel, you better sleep
with the lights on.
He hangs up the phone and walks to his bike. The skateboard
punks give him a wide berth.
Closing time at the big zoo and FAMILIES flock toward the
parking lot. SANITATION WORKERS clean the trash from the
walking paths.
The lemur habitat is cultivated to mimic the environment of
Madagascar. Four RING-TAILED LEMURS swing from the branches
of the baobab trees, shrieking at each other.
f rC)NTTNTTPD I
51.
CONTINUED:
They congregate in a small wooden hut with a peaked roof,
where they scamper up and down the back of FRANCIS, a
slender, balding man in a zoo keeper's uniform.
Francis has a gentle smile as he feeds the lemurs leaf-eater
biscuits. He speaks to them as they shriek,: clambering over
his lap, biscuits clutched in their tiny hands.
FRANCIS
She did what? Ninna, that wasn't
very nice.
He gives one of the female lemurs an admonishing look. She
shrieks and dances away, biscuit held to her chest.
FRANCIS (cont'd)
You must have done something to
deserve it, Myrto. Oh, you bit her?
Why? Haven't we talked about this?
The lemurs all quiet down at the same time. Francis watches
them. Something is wrong. The lemurs flee, ducking into holes
in the baobab trees, hiding from whatever's coming.
Francis frowns and turns. Victor Creed stands above him.
VICTOR CREED
Everyone thinks you're a lunatic,
talking to animals. But I know
you're not, Francis. You understand
them, don't you? That's your power.
Francis looks for help but there is no one in sight.
VICTOR CREED (cont'd)
What do they tell you?
Francis is quiet for a few seconds, staring at the killer.
FRANCIS
Nothing very fancy. They tell me
when they're scared. When they're
angry. When they're hungry.
VICTOR CREED
You ever talk to a panther,
Francis?
Francis shakes his head.
CONTTNi7Ff)1
52.
CONTINUED: (2)
1
VICTOR CREED (cont.'d)
Every now and then a white panther
comes along. Albino. The mama
panther won't even look at it. She
won't lick it, she won't feed it,
nothing. So pretty soon the white
panther dies. You know why?
(off Francis's silence)
White panthers are mistakes. And
nature takes care of its mistakes.
FRANCIS
There are no mistakes. We're all
part of the plan. We're all God's
children.
Creed grins, licking his sharp fangs.
VICTOR CREED
I don't know who my Daddy was, but
it sure as Hell wasn't God.
Francis bows his head.
FRANCIS
I'm not afraid of dying.
Creed runs one long claw across Francis's cheek.
VICTOR CREED
How do you know? You've never done
it before.
CUT TO:
Ninna the ring-tailed lemur mewls softly, trying to hide
herself deep within the baobab tree as her human friend
SCREAMS.
Logan, riding James Hudson's vintage motorcycle, rolls down
the famous strip, lit by the mammoth neon signs above him.
He stops at a red light and stares at the lonely moon rising
over the desert.
LADY OF THE NIGHT (O.S.)
You look like a man who could use a
night off.
(C fNTTNTTRT)1
53.
CONTINUED:
Logan turns to look at a REDHEAD in a tight silver dress,
waiting at the light in her Cadillac convertible. She looks
like she's expensive, and she looks like she'd be worth it.
LOGAN
You're way out of my league,
darlin'.
LADY OF THE NIGHT
You never know. You looking for a
good time with a bad woman?
Logan smiles and shakes his head.
LOGAN
Not tonight.
The redhead purses her lips.
LADY OF THE NIGHT
You don't know what you're missing.
Logan revs his engine as the light changes.
LOGAN
I know exactly what I'm missing.
The courtesan waits at the green light,. watching Logan speed
off into the night -
In a seedy part of town, far from the casinos' bright lights,
Logan walks through the front door of a rundown boxing gym.
Logan, on his Harley, speeds past a welcome sign for Elgin,
Iowa, Population 676.
The neon Vacancy sign shines, a beacon for tired travellers
in the heartland.
A MOTHER pushes her shopping cart towards her minivan. Her
young, freckled SON holds her hand, gazing fearfully at
Logan, who stands on the edge of the lot smoking a cigar. He
looks out of place in this quiet, Midwestern town.
Logan winks at the kid. He drops his cigar, grinds it out
with the toe of his boot, and heads for the supermarket.
A heavy rain falls in the French Quarter. There is no sign
outside the club, only.a gargantuan BOUNCER standing in front
of an unmarked door in a dark alley.
The bouncer apprises the stocky mutant walking his way.
BOUNCER
You superior?
Only when we go CLOSE ON THE BOUNCER do we realize he has a
single eye, large and bloodshot, centered in his forehead..
Logan raises both hands. Snikt! A single claw extends from
his right hand.
(ONTTNTTF.T) )
65.
CONTINUED:
He shoves the claw straight through his left palm, retracts
the blade, and shows his wounded palm to the bouncer. The
bouncer sees the wound heal and opens the door.
BOUNCER (cont'd)
Welcome home, brother.
Hines, driving an old Ford, pulls up.to the guard house at
the perimeter of the compound. A YOUNG SENTRY salutes her.
YOUNG SENTRY
Morning, Lieutenant.
Hines smiles brightly, trying to hide her nervousness.
HINES
Good morning!
The sentry looks into the car's cabin. The passenger seat is
empty. The back seat is empty.
YOUNG SENTRY
Could you pop the trunk for me?
HINES
The trunk?
YOUNG SENTRY
Yes, ma'am.
It's all standard procedure but Hines is close to panicking.
She opens the glove compartment and hits the trunk release.
The sentry inspects the trunk... nothing but a coil of rope
and a roll of electrical tape. He slams the trunk door.
YOUNG SENTRY (cont'd)
You have a good day.
(C'NNTTNTTHN 1
75.
CONTINUED:
He signals to a second SENTRY standing inside the guard
house, who hits a button. The steel gate rolls open and Hines
drives into the compound.
Hines steps out of her parked car and looks around. No one is
in the immediate vicinity.
HINES
It's safe.
Logan crawls out from the underbody, where he had been
clinging. He dusts himself off.
LOGAN
Were you aiming for every speed
bump in the state?
HINES
Sorry about that. Now what?
LOGAN
We find a uniform that fits.
A well-built SERGEANT walks toward his vehicle, paging
through requisition papers on a clipboard.
LOGAN (cont'd)
That ought to work.
Hines and Logan, who now wears a crisp uniform with a
sergeant's stripes and a black beret, walk into the building.
Perhaps the colors are desaturated to let us know that this
is a scene we've witnessed before, or thought we did.
Kayla sits behind the wheel of her pickup. Victor Creed walks
toward her, black talons raking five gashes on the hood.
Kayla has been expecting him. She pulls her backpack out from
behind the seat and takes from it a hypodermic needle and a
plastic IV bag filled with dark blood.
Creed tears the truck's door off its hinges and tosses it
twenty yards. Kayla injects herself with the hypodermic.
KAYLA (V.0.)
Reduces the heartbeat to almost
zero. Breathing virtually stops.
Makes you flatline for six minutes.
Kayla hops down from the truck. She holds out the IV bag to
Victor, who casually pierces it with his claw.
KAYLA (V.0.) (cont'd)
I'd been drawing my own blood every
night for the past week. I had four
liters ready that morning.
Kayla smears. her own blood on her body and empties the rest
of the bag on the pavement. She lies down in the puddle in a
fetal position, her breathing already beginning to slow.
82.
The compound has essentially imploded, the major structures
falling into the massive pit created by the cavern's
collapse.
Severed gas lines and ruptured boilers have turned the crater
into a raging fire pit. Smoke billows up from the molten
core.
A few dazed survivors, SOLDIERS and SCIENTISTS, have escaped
the carnage, but Alkali Lake no longer exists as a military
base. Thousands of singed documents flutter in the wind.
Logan and Kayla walk away from the burning crater, never
looking back. They head through the woods toward the lake
that glitters in the sunlight.
KAYLA
One of them could have survived.
Logan glances at her.
KAYLA (cont'd)
The clones. They've got your
healing factor.
Logan looks back at the devastation.
LOGAN
Unless someone comes along who can
move a few million tons of steel,
they ain't going anywhere.
They stop at the edge of the lake. Paper from the destroyed
base drifts through the air, falling on the water and the
shore.
LOGAN
Almost looks peaceful from here.
KAYLA
There's something I want you to
know.
He looks at her.
(CONTTNt1F.fl
CONTINUED:
KAYLA (cont'd)
Maybe nothing I say matters
anymore. But I'm going to say it
anyway. I...
A blossom of blood opens up on her chest. She stares down at
it in wonder before sinking to her knees.
Logan turns and sees Stryker walking toward them.
KAYLA (cont'd)
No...
Stryker fires again. The adamantium bullet rips through
Logan's forehead with an unholy sound.
Logan falls to the ground. Stryker stands above him and fires
another bullet into Logan's head.
Stryker turns the gun on Kayla.
KAYLA (cont'd)
You don't need to waste another
bullet. I'm already dead.
Stryker blinks and hesitates. Kayla coughs, her strength
beginning to fade.
KAYLA (cont'd)
Maybe you should turn that gun on
yourself, Colonel.
Stryker nods, pointing the gun at his own head.
KAYLA (cont'd)
It would be good for the mutants if
I made you pull the trigger..
(BEAT)
Why do you hate us so much?
Stryker's finger trembles on the trigger.
KAYLA (cont'd)
Is it because your son is one of
us?
For the first time, perhaps, we see something human in the
cold blue of Stryker's eyes.
KAYLA (cont'd)
Enough killing, Colonel. Throw your
gun in the lake.
r (-nNTTNTTFT)1
101.
CONTINUED: (2)
Stryker does as he's told. The revolver sinks into the water.
KAYLA (cont'd)
Leave us. Keep walking till your
feet start to bleed.
Stryker turns and walks away.
Kayla crawls over to Logan. She lifts his head onto her lap.
He's unconscious but breathing. The bullet holes in his skin
have already healed. She strokes his jaw. and smiles sadly.
One of the scraps of paper from the base blows against her
leg. She takes it and looks down at the blank page.
She has no pen. She touches her chest, just above her heart,
wetting her finger with her blood.
She writes four words on the page, blows on it to dry it,
folds it once and places it in Logan's hand.
She kisses his lips and rests his head gently on the ground.
Fighting the pain, a dying woman, Kayla manages to stand.
KAYLA (cont'd)
If you ever remember what I did to
you, try to forgive me. I was a
fool. And you were right... I
always loved you.
She turns and walks toward the lake, never looking back,
never hesitating as the waters rise above her knees, above
her waist, above her shoulders, above her head.
Logan's eyes flutter and open. For a moment he squints into
the blue sky.
He sits up, looking around. The woods are empty.
He stands, completely disoriented, a stranger in the world.
He realizes that he's holding a piece of paper in his hand.
He unfolds it and reads the message written in blood.
You are my Wolverine.
He stares at it for a moment before folding it carefully and
putting it in his pocket.
f C ONTTNIIRD)
102.
CONTINUED:
He takes a deep breath of cold air and walks west, toward the
falling sun.
He doesn't know who he is. He doesn't know where he's going.
But the wind blows through his hair, the last of the sunlight
feels good on his skin. He is a free man.
He walks toward his destiny..
THE END
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
Writers : David BenioffSkip Woods
Genres : ActionFantasySci-FiThriller
User Comments
Back to IMSDb