
      A white tiled room, like something from a snuff movie or a fetish 
      photoshoot. Overlit. A brutal, antique operating table in the middle of 
      this terrible room. The screams are suddenly loud now. A boy is being held 
      down on the table by doctors in strangely out of date outfits. Their 
      clothing is immaculate but all wear white rubber boots splashed with 
      ancient and fresher blood. A similarly eerie masked nurse is unscrewing 
      the lid of an outsize jar and the noise of the threads biting and turning 
      gets louder, drowning out the screams and whimpers of the boy.


      TITLES

                                                   

      The Harmony House Assembly Hall, packed with rows of quiet boys, dressed 
      in grey V-neck pullovers and plain ties (including the boy from the 
      pre-creds scene). At the lectern is DR. GELT in his black suit and his 
      round, blindman shades. He stands like some old time preacher but there’s 
      an oily, reptilian, predatory quality to him. He gives off child molester 
      vibes. Also present, sitting on a chair on the podium or stage, is MISS 
      DWYER. Prim, predatory. Scanning the room. Security men with batons sit in 
      seat around the hall, watching for any trouble.

          GELT :     People like to sneer at that word these days, don’t they ? 
      But according to my dictionary it means ‘compliance, in actions and 
      behaviour etc. with certain accepted standards.’
       
      Moving across the unnaturally-rapt audience of shining faces. In the midst 
      of the throng, DANE McGOWAN and GAZ GALLAGHER. Gaz fidgets and makes 
      furtive faces at Dane. Dane is quietly making an inventory of the place as 
      Gelt speaks - bars on the windows, the weapons carried by the guards, the 
      location of fire alarms and surveillance cameras. A screw begins to turn, 
      winding out from its place underneath a chair.

          GELT :     ‘Certain accepted standards’. That seems reasonable enough, 
      doesn’t it ? You boys on the Intensive Probation Programme are here 
      because you have refused to comply with accepted standards you probably 
      didn’t even know existed.

      There’s a strange poster on the wall - three schematic faces, one happy, 
      one angry, one impassive. Beneath the emotional faces, the word ‘BAD’ is 
      written, beneath the masklike face, ‘GOOD’. The screw keeps working its 
      way loose in the bottom of the chair.
          
          GELT :     We understand your rage. We’re not afraid of you and we 
      don’t pity you or hate you.

      A smartarsed, pre-op kid near the back of the hall pipes up cockily.

          SMARTARSE :     Sir, is it all right if we hate you ?

      No-one reacts. The boy looks around, nervous, grinning. Gelt pauses very 
      briefly - a swift exchange of curt nods with two security guards. Dane 
      catches Miss Dwyer’s eye. She smiles a soulless smile behind her black 
      shades.

          GELT :     We acknowledge that every one of you is an individual.

      Miss Dwyer shifts sexily but with an undercurrent of restriction and pain.
          
          GELT :     We value your individuality.
          
      As Gelt continues, the guards move in and haul the smartarse out of his 
      seat. No-one helps the kid as he’s hustled up to the back of the hall 
      where a white-coated doctor awaits.

          GELT :     But we’re in the business of making round pegs for round 
      holes.

      Dane watches the smartarse being hustled out of the hall. He sits with 
      folded arms, glances at the blank, impassive faces of the other boys and 
      shrinks a little in his seat. He doesn’t like this. Gaz nudges Dane. 

          GAZ :      Ey! What’s conformity ?

          DANE :    It’s a perfume by Calvin Klein.

      A chair collapses out from under one of the security men. He falls on his 
      arse, startled, perplexed. Dane smirks. Gaz knows. His eyes light up.

          GAZ (whispers) :     Was that you  ?

          DANE :     Shut up

      One of the boys behind looks suddenly angry.

          BOY :       SHH!

      Gelt looks towards Gaz, then at the guards. Gaz sneers. Dane dunts him 
      with his elbow. The guards stand ready. Gelt has turned all of his 
      attention in the direction of Gaz and Dane as he winds up for the big 
      finish.

           GELT :     You will conform. And what is more, in the end you’ll 
      thank us for showing you how.

      Dane looks up. Gelt ‘smiles’. The alarm bell rings.



      The interrogation room – there’s a long black table, weirdly long. Gelt 
      sits at one end, Miss Dwyer at the other. Dane is seated in the middle. He 
      has to keep turning to look at Miss Dwyer and Gelt  as they take turns 
      speaking. Everything is sunshine yellow. There’s some kind of machine on 
      the table in front of Dane. Nothing too obtrusive. Dane is guarded. He 
      checks out the machine. There are TV monitors showing CCTV images of Dane, 
      shot from different angles. Dane sits in something that looks like a retro 
      designer dentist chair. Miss Dwyer breathes deeply, weirdly loud in the 
      stillness. Dane’s eyes flicker to her. He takes in the room. There’s a 
      cabinet somewhere in the room - also yellow but somehow medical. An 
      instrument cabinet, with trays etc.

          GELT :     You tested exceptionally highly on the questionnaire we 
      asked you to fill in when you arrived here, Mr. McGowan. Well above the 
      national average.

      Miss Dwyer glances at her case notes. Dane looks dumb but we know he’s 
      picking up every undercurrent. He shakes his head. Miss Dwyer looks up, 
      cold, and suddenly throws a pack of cards directly at Dane’s face. Dane 
      catches them. He’s ready to catch them even before she throws them. Dane’s 
      on the verge of flaring angrily. Then defensiveness. He knows he’s just 
      given himself away.

          GELT :     Very good reaction time. Almost telepathic. Shuffle the 
      cards, Mr. McGowan. Let’s talk about why you’re here.
          
      Miss Dwyer makes a notes, impassive. Dane unwraps and starts to 
      methodically shuffle the cards.
          
          GELT :     You set fire to your school on at least two occasions. You 
      stole cars. You abused drugs. You battered a teacher so severely he was 
      hospitalised and forced to quit his job.

          MISS DWYER :     Quite the little rebel.
          
      Dane’s not sure if she’s being encouraging or not.

          DANE :     What have I to do with the cards ?

      Gelt gestures. Dane gets up and walks to the end of the table. He pushes 
      the cards towards Gelt and returns to his seat. Miss Dwyer makes a note.

          MISS DWYER :     Imagine if we asked you to tell us what order you 
      thought they were in now, what would you say ?
          
      Pause. She looks up at Dane. Gelt looks at the top card.
          
          DANE :     What ?  Just guess one ?

          GELT :     You can do it.

      Dane thinks.
          
          DANE :     Is it the three of hearts ?

          GELT :     Keep trying.

      He turns over another card.

          DANE :     The Queen of Diamonds ?

      Gelt turns again. Dane’s getting everything wrong.

          DANE :     Four of spades.

      Wrong again. Miss Dwyer, picking up on the lack of success, is becoming 
      impatient (She’s also trying the overload technique which is supposed to 
      detect for ESP by exciting rather than calming the mind: the theory is 
      that by distracting someone during a test, the examiner can divert the 
      conscious mind, allowing the unconscious to perform the psychic feat).

          MISS DWYER :     Are you scared of the voices you hear or do they seem 
      friendly ?  Card!

      Dane almost guesses right but catches himself. He’s stumbling but he 
      doesn’t fall yet. Miss Dwyer catches it.

          DANE :     Jack of...Spades.

      Gelt looks at him. Another card.

          DANE :     Six of clubs.

          MISS DWYER :     When your father died, did you ever think you saw his 
      ghost at any time after his death ?

          DANE (rattled) :     My dad’s not dead...

          MISS DWYER (alert) :     Card!

          DANE :     Jack of diamonds.  ...My dad’s not dead.

      Gelt has the Jack of Diamonds in his hand. Miss Dwyer is aware and crosses 
      something out on her notes. She exchanges a smile with Gelt.

          MISS DWYER :     My mistake.

      Dane knows he’s been cornered.



      In the clean, neat, bright little surveillance monitor room of Harmony 
      House (important to distinguish it from Sir Miles hi-tech James Bond 
      surveillance central. This place is small and functional and ordinary 
      looking) screens show the yard and the library and the dorms and the 
      corridors and the dining hall. Electricity zaps on and off. Everything 
      flickers. The guy on monitor duty bangs his console. The images flutter 
      back onto the screens. In the dining hall, Dane McGowan, in line, for 
      lunch, glances up at the camera.



      Dane looks away from the camera. He and Gaz file along in a queue with 
      trays in their hands. 

          GAZ :     So what happened to you ?

      Dinner ladies with blue eyeshadow and fake smiles ladle insipid gravy and 
      instant potatoes onto their plates. The other boys move quietly, in an 
      orderly fashion. Gaz seems unconcerned by it all, in his own private, 
      invulnerable world. Dane, not so dumb, is on the alert.

          DANE :     A lot of shite. I¹m getting out of here.

      Dane’s looking around, checking everything.

          GAZ :     They do electronics. I was in the workshop. You get to make 
      things for tellies and all that.

      Dane’s not interested. He looks at the little plastic cup of orange juice 
      that’s been placed on his tray.

          DANE :     What’s that ?

          DINNER LADY :     Orange juice. What’s it look like ?

      Dane lifts the cup, noses it.

          DANE :     Have you not got any Coke ?

      Polite mutterings of discontent from the queue. The dinner lady smiles a 
      flat, creepy smile.

          DINNER LADY :     You’re new.

       

      Gelt is setting up the machines for the next session, plugging things into 
      the dental chair where Dane will sit.

          GELT :     Well ?  I think we can work with him but we need time.  
      He’s talented but he’s headstrong.

          MISS DWYER :     One day. Those are direct instructions.

          GELT :     Of course but if he is what we think he is... 

          MISS DWYER :     Then either he joins us today or he doesn¹t.

      Gelt’s not happy. He has something to prove, cold and perverted though it 
      may be.
          
          GELT :     In which case ?

      Miss Dwyer shrugs. For a split-second, subliminal, we can’t believe we’ve 
      seen it - a flicker of insect legs over the rim of her black glasses.

          MISS DWYER :     If we can’t use him, we’ll have to ensure that 
      there’s nothing left for the Enemy to recruit.



      LORD FANNY, in full drag, is laying out polaroids of the Harmony House 
      gatesign and other views of the building and its fences and surveillance 
      equipment. She’s humming ‘Wannabe’ as she makes a big circle of Polaroid 
      shots.

          KING MOB :     Robin. How’s the kid doing ?

      RAGGED ROBIN sits and reads a ‘Beano’. As she reads, she’s lifting a 
      mobile phone to her ear.

          RAGGED ROBIN :     His mind is intact and transmitting a beautiful and 
      distinctive psychic  waveform.  He’s fine. He’s scared. What’s the IRA 
      codeword this week ?

          KING MOB :     Excalibur.

          RAGGED ROBIN (to phone) :     Oh, yeah. Hi. I planted four bombs in 
      the National Lottery Show studio ?  Uh-huh, they’re all set to go off when 
      the bonus ball is picked...Excalibur ?
       
      Clicks phone off.

          BOY :     What are you doing ? I could have won the rollover, 
      girlfriend!  35 million dollars. I worked it out.  Do you how many SS120 
      Stingray ground- to-air missiles with optional laser targetting 35 million 
      dollars is gonna buy ?  I mean, seriously.
          
          KING MOB :     Okay.  How’s your end coming along, Fanny ? All right ?

          LORD FANNY (thumbs up, sardonic) :     Darling. You could walk in 
      there wearing Dior and the cameras wouldn’t blink. 
          
      BOY, hyper, bouncing with adrenalin, takes the head off a store dummy with 
      a Tae Kwon Do kick and a yell. Slouches to join Fanny. Boy’s bored.

          BOY :     So what is this ?
          
          LORD FANNY :     Call it what you like. The gift’s hereditary, 
      darling. Smuggled down the generations from mother to daughter.
          Of course, my mother didn’t have any daughters. So...she had to make 
      one. Fabulous moi.

      Fanny places the now familiar photo of Dane directly in the centre of the 
      ring of Harmony House polaroids.

          LORD FANNY :     And there’s the poor little baby locked up like an 
      animal.

      Fanny squirts lighter fuel on the circle of polaroids. Almost sexual.

          LORD FANNY :     And here comes the fire.

      Fanny strikes a match. Wild-eyed and witchy with sudden excitement as she 
      sets light to the polaroids. Boy watches, mesmerised.

          BOY :     Voodoo bullshit.

      King Mob picks up his fetish mask.

          KING MOB :     All right. Let’s do one for Guy Fawkes.

      The pictures of Harmony House crackle blister and burst into flames. 



      Dane and Gaz at a table together in the stark dining hall. White walls, 
      too much echo. We notice, almost peripherally, with Dane, that boys play 
      with cards which are blank, except that some have the word ‘YES’ printed 
      on them and others have ‘NO’. Dane’s taking it all in quietly, mind 
      working. Gaz just keeps talking, self-obsessed as they find a table and 
      sit down.

          GAZ :     I was thinking about joining the army. If you just want to 
      go about fighting that’s the best way to do it. I’m telling you.

          DANE :   I’m not fighting for anybody.

          GAZ :     You’d fight for the money but. I would.

      Gaz drinks his orange juice. Dane realises but says nothing. Gaz can’t 
      undrink it.

          DANE (preoccupied, looking around) :     There’s something funny about 
      this.

          GAZ (looks around) :     It’s just dead strict. What d’you think they 
      do to you ? Check that guy but.

      Smartarse sits at a table on his own. Bruised circles under his eyes. He’s 
      quiet now. His fingers twitch a little as he eats. His hair is neat, his 
      tie is neat. Suspicion on Dane’s face.

          GAZ :  Tell you this: you’ve just gotta play the game and have a laugh 
      when they’re not looking. That’s what my big brother says.

      He looks around. Strange boys in a strange room. Dane and Gaz suddenly 
      seem like the only normal people in this chilling zombie lounge. A door 
      opens. Gelt and a white-coated DOCTOR appear but Dane hasn’t seen them.

          DANE :     Aye, well, you go first, wee man.

      Gaz sees authority bearing down on.

          DANE :     Try and get a smile out of any of  these c...

      Gaz kicks Dane’s shin. Gelt approaches, hands clasped. Unctuous but 
      somehow frightening. A living oil slick oozing in for the kill.
      The doctor stands behind Gaz ominously, checking a clipboard. Gaz smiles 
      and nods.
          
          GAZ :     All right ?

          GELT :    I hate to break up your chat but Gary here is due for his 
      medical, eh ?

          GAZ :     That¹s me, sir!

          DANE (suspicious) :     There’s nothing wrong with him.
          
      Gaz is getting to his feet.

          GELT :     Are you a doctor, Mr. McGowan ?

          DANE (mock innocent) :     No, sir, but I’d like to be one when I grow 
      up.
          
          GAZ (anxious not to make waves) :     I’m not that hungry anyway.

      He shrugs sheepishly. Dane looks worried. Everyone is hiding their true 
      emotions here.

          DOCTOR :     This way.

      Gaz gives a little mocking wave as he walks away with the doctor. Dane 
      looks down at Gaz’s unfinished meal.

          GELT :     You’ll need your strength, Mr. McGowan. Eat up. Drink your 
      juice.

      Gelt stares as Dane picks up his cup, smiles wanly and knocks back the 
      juice. Gelt’s hand grips Dane’s shoulder. Dane looks at it.
      Gelt walks away. Dane turns and spits his orange juice out into whatever’s 
      handy. He looks at a boy who sits reading a book. Dane realises as the boy 
      turns the pages, that they’re all blank.He glances at the alarm on the 
      wall, eyes intense with panic and fury.
      The bell begins to ring again.



          TECHNICIAN :     This is the footage from the ‘Green Nation’ road 
      protest, this one speech is enough to crucify the bastard.

      Walls of screen, endless screens blue-lighting everything. Surveillance 
      footage on every monitor - roads, alleyways, people sitting watching 
      telly, watching the watchers, people in bed, people in hotel rooms and 
      boardrooms and discos. COLIN RANSOM looks around.

      And deep within surveillance heaven, RANSOM and SIR MILES stand by a booth 
      where a video surgeon TECHNICIAN reworks the Michael Warren footage. SIR 
      MILES is in his 50’s, the civil service arm of the conspiracy. Waspy, 
      queenish, like that guy who tends the Queen’s art treasures. We observe 
      the Warren footage as the Tech plays around and Sir Miles watches, growing 
      ever more bored. There are WOTAN logos. Michael Warrens eyes blink faster 
      as the techie slides a fader switch up a few notches and points at the 
      screen.

          TECHNICIAN :     Speed up his blink rate a little, suddenly he’s a 
      mental patient. Make his skin look like he’s sick. This rig’ll do anything 
      you want.

          SIR MILES :     We’re not buying it from you.

          RANSOM (bored) :     I’m sicking of looking at his face.  Why is this 
      wanker getting so much press ?

          SIR MILES (to Ransom) :   We’re doing our bit to undermine his 
      support. Mr. Ransom. What about your end ? I heard your... record.

          RANSOM :     The master. The master disc.

          SIR MILES :     Straight to number one, I expect. Who implanted the 
      trigger signal in the chorus ?

          RANSOM :     Young bloke called Rodchenko.  It’s good, isn’t it ?  It 
      comes out the week before April 31st. The soundtrack for The summer of 
      surveillance. When we come out on the side of Big Brother, everybody will. 
      ‘I¹m A Policeman’ will be number one for as long as it takes.
          [pause] :       It’s a great single.
          
          SIR MILES (crossing the room) :     I’m sure it is.  I’d like you to 
      look at something.

          RANSOM (reluctant) :     Look, this is just a flying visit, Sir Miles. 
      I just want to make sure the Ladyhill site gets proper protection.
          It was Peter‘s last wish, god rest his bankrupt soul.

      Sir Miles takes a CD from its case, inserts it in a player.

          SIR MILES :     Convince the media to look the other way and I’ll 
      ensure that WOTAN troops do what needs to be done with the minimum of 
      fuss.  No-one wants to jeopardise the experiment.
                               We all stand to profit, each in our way, don’t we 
      ?

      Sir Miles presses some buttons and looks at a black screen.

          RANSOM (working it out in his head) :      I just have to think of 
      something mildly inflammatory the boys can say.  Something to piss off the 
      Archbishop and steal the front pages away from Michael   bloody Warren’s 
      boring New Age bullshit...

      The screen comes to life. Static.

          SIR MILES (dry) :     ‘We are now bigger than Diana.’

          RANSOM (amused) :     You should be in PR, Sir Miles.

      Ransom is looking the other way, checking out a girl undressing in her 
      bedroom.
          
          RANSOM :     Are we ready yet ?  We can’t all be paid to sit in front 
      of the telly all day.
          
      Sir Miles nods, directing Ransom¹s attention to the screen where the 
      static hisses. Sir Miles fast forwards. Surveillance shot of the toilet 
      cubicle where Peter Barclay lies dead in a spreading puddle of blood.

          RANSOM :     Christ. At least he died with dignity.  What’s your point 
      ?

      As he talks, Sir Miles rewinds into static, static, static, then the 
      picture returns. Sir Miles allows the image to play - Barclay comes into 
      the men’s room, walks towards the toilet door...Then static.

          SIR MILES :     Systems failure apparently. For exactly the three 
      minutes thirty eight seconds it took Barclay’s killer to get himself into 
      position, do the dirty deed and exit, stage left.

      Sir Miles suddenly seems like he knows more than he¹s telling. Ransom is 
      off balance for a second.

          RANSOM :     Systems failure ?

      The tape fast forwards through static to the image of Barclay dead. It 
      becomes a still image.

          SIR MILES (reptilian) :     We have you on disk, threatening Barclay 
      minutes before his death.

       Ransom suddenly sees what he’s supposed to see.’KING MOB’ sprayed on the 
      wall.

          RANSOM :     What ?

          SIR MILES :     ‘KING MOB’ seems so very you, Mr. Ransom. So populist.

          RANSOM (taken aback) :     This is a joke, right ?  We’re supposed to 
      trust each other, Sir Miles.

          SIR MILES (coolly appraising) :     I’m in the business of National 
      Security.

      Ransom is suddenly caught in a snare of class. He tries to recover. 
      Barclay¹s dead on screen. Ransom musters up a final weak bite as he turns, 
      leaves. 

          RANSOM :     Your eyesight needs testing.
          
      Sir Miles regards his screens, ignoring Ransom’s departure.
             
          SIR MILES :     If there are terrorists, we’ll find them.  No-one’s 
      invisible.

      Sir Miles watches Ransom stalk off down the corridor, pushing the doors 
      open angrily. Elsewhere, onscreen, an image from Ladyhill suddenly fizzes 
      out.



      Dane is wired up to the machine on the desk. It should be of pyramid 
      design to recall the Canary Wharf Tower. He sits nervously awaiting 
      instructions. He’s wearing headphones. His breathing is loud in his head. 
      White noise as he looks at Gelt and Miss Dwyer. They position little 
      microphones on the desk. Dane’s chair has been turned around so that he 
      can look at monitors on the walls. Scenes from the workshop come up. Boys 
      at conveyor belts. Production line computer circuit boards.

          GELT :     We already know what you can do, Mr. McGowan.

          MISS DWYER :     Now we’d just like you to do it for us.

          GELT :     What do you see on the screens in front of you ?

          DANE (talking loud over headphone noise) :     Wee guys working, sir.

      Miss Dwyer switches on the machine. Dane reacts slightly as the white 
      noise pulses produce an alpha wave rhythm.

          GELT :     We’re connecting you to a transmitter, Mr. McGowan. What 
      you can hear are alpha waves. Now look at the young man on the screen.

      A kid sits at a conveyor, wiring up a circuit board.
          
          GELT :     Just a drone really. As you say, a  worker.
          
      Dane watches the kid. Miss Dwyer is monitoring brain waves on her machine.

          GELT :      I want you to make him move his arm just by looking at 
      him, just by telling him with your mind.

          DANE :     I don’t think I can do anything like that, sir.

          GELT :     What ? You can’t give orders ? Rubbish. You’re the sort of 
      person who likes to give orders, Mr. McGowan.

          DANE :     I don’t think so.

          MISS DWYER :     Who was the leader of the little gang of boys you ran 
      around with ?

      Gelt looks up at the monitor. The boy on the conveyor has stopped. Dane 
      thinks ‘fuck you’ and goes for it.

          MISS DWYER :     Wasn’t it you ?
          
      The boy onscreen lifts his arm slowly, hypnotised. Gelt is eager. Miss 
      Dwyer looks up. The boy onscreen, dreamily turns his hand around and makes 
      a two-fingered gesture at the screen. Dane’s not stopping. He had no idea 
      he could do this. Brainwave traces peaking. As Gelt and Miss Dwyer watch, 
      another boy in the workshop down tools and raises two fingers  to the 
      camera. Then another.



      Chaos in the workshop as silent boys drop what their doing and salute the 
      cameras. Guards move in, trying to pull down the arms, which bob back up.



      Dane lets go. Brainwave traces flatten.

          MISS DWYER :     Two fingers to the establishment.  Well done, Mr. 
      McGowan.

      Gelt’s pleased. He looks at Miss Dwyer as though this one is in the bag. 
      She’s not completely convinced but the display has intrigued her.
          
          GELT :     Quite a display.
          
      Dane knows he’s gone too far.
          
          DANE :     It’s nothing to do with me, sir. It was them.

      The boys onscreen silently return to their tasks. Mr. Dwyer nods to Gelt.

          GELT :     Of course it was.
          [now brisk, getting on with it] :  These boys are particularly 
      susceptible to remote control. I’d like you to make them work harder.

      Dane looks at the screen. The brainwave patterns begin to peak.
          
          GELT :     Push them.  All of them at once.

      Dane’s getting fired up. Mr. Dwyer and Gelt exchange triumphant glances. 
      Hers colder than his.

          GELT :     If you think you can. Just give the order.

      Dane stares at the screen.



      The boys begin to accelerate their productivity. It’s a visible 
      difference. We follow the final stages down the production line of a CCTV 
      camera being assembled at record speed. A whitecoat times a boy at the end 
      of the progress. Looks at the completed camera and nods to someone who 
      picks up a phone.



      Gelt lowers his phone.

          GELT :     Congratulations.

      Dane is soaked with sweat as Gelt removes the headphones. He looks a 
      little dazed. Orderlies enter to help him from the chair.

          GELT :     Perhaps we can move you from the dormitory.

      Dane is gone. Gelt, satisfied turns to Miss Dwyer.

          GELT :     Well. What did I say ?  He’s ours.

      On the screens, boys work faster and faster. Blood leaks from a boy’s 
nose.



      Dane comes into his airy personal room. A neat little bed and chest of 
      drawers etc. He lays his little bag down on the bed, looks up at the 
      camera in the corner of the room. Smiles a wicked smile.



      Close up of a light bulb exploding.



      Disaster area. Gelt stands holding a CCTV camera. Boys have fainted on 
      their machines. Others are being carried out by orderlies, twitching 
      spastically. Others are conscious, twitching or laughing suddenly then 
      stopping, or getting up from chairs to move purposefully straight into a 
      wall, then be helped back into the chair, only to do it again. Somebody is 
      binning cameras.

          MISS DWYER :     I’m going back to London.

      A machine explodes, then a lightbulb pops.

          GELT (looks at the camera) :     Give me a week. You see what he’s 
      capable of.

      A technician is laying down circuit boards. Everything’s wired up wrong 
      and circuits are rearranged to make letters. The technician lays down 
      three ‘F’s, stacking them, three ‘U’s, three ‘C’s...

          GELT :     Imagine what we could do with him.

          MISS DWYER :     I have no imagination, Doctor Gelt.  All I see is 
      chaos.

          GELT :     I can break him.
          
          MISS DWYER :     We’ve run out of time. It’s over.
          
      Miss Dwyer leaves the workshop, with Gelt in futile pursuit.
          
          MISS DWYER :     Process him like the rest. Do it now.

      She’s gone. Overhead, another lightbulb explodes. The alarm goes off 
      again. Stops. Starts. Gelt addresses an ORDERLY who’s come in.

          GELT :     Have theatre prepared for an emergency operation.

      The orderly looks disgruntled as he crumples his lottery ticket and tosses 
      it in the bin. He turns back the way he came, pissed
      off. Gelt has a moment’s thought and makes the decision that kills him. 
          
          GELT :     No. Wait. Give me an hour.
          


      Dane sits carving his name into the desk in his new room. Gelt appears. 
      Dane looks up.

          GELT :     Mr. McGowan. A word.



      Invisibles girls in the wagon. Ragged Robin driving. Boy and Fanny 
      squeezed in. Ragged Robin checks her watch.

          RAGGED ROBIN :     Okay. King Mob will be at the perimeter fence and 
      we are synchronising watches...NOW!

      She makes a face. The others smile. King Mob’s passion for spy mission 
      bullshit is unspoken between them.
          
          BOY :     Wait a minute! Wait a minute! What is the nature of this 
      evening’s mission exactly ?
          
          RAGGED ROBIN :     We’re going to  screw up surveillance. We do the 
      girls stuff while the self-styled King springs the kid.

          BOY :     I like the King, you know what I’m saying, but the man has 
      some psychological problems which I blame directly on James Bond.  He 
      should get in touch with his non-aggressive nature every once in a 
while...
          
          LORD FANNY (trash exasperation) :     What is this, darling ? A Diane 
      Keaton movie ?

          BOY [grins] :     Kiss my ass.

          LORD FANNY :     Spy music!

      Hits the tapedeck. Supercool spy theme heavy on the bassline.



      Gelt and Dane are walking together down a long and overlit corridor, lined 
      with doors. White tiles, hissing heating systems. Clinical ambience. Weird 
      schematic posters on the walls, like the ones previously seen. Pipes 
      everywhere, feeding in and out of walls, carrying what ? And to where ? 
      Everything is subtly wrong. Dane glances at a light and it goes out. Gelt 
      is not entirely unaware that something  is going on. As the scene 
      progresses, we see that he is pacing Dane, imitating the boy’s rhythms of 
      speech, subtly mirroring his gestures and his breathing, trying to slip 
      through Dane¹s defenses. Implanting Ericksonian hypnotic commands like 
      ‘You’ll be glad to sleep’. And all the while Dane keeps wriggling out of 
      Gelt’s grasp and taking in everything, memorising the layout of the place, 
      checking the alarms and the cameras.

          GELT :     You’ll be glad to sleep, after today. You know the best 
      leaders always begin as rebels.

          DANE :     It’s nothing to do with me, sir. Honest.

          GELT :     I’m giving you one last chance because I want to work with 
      you. Miss Dwyer doesn’t  agree with me that you should be here at all.
          DANE :     I don’t really want to be here, sir.

          GELT :     Don’t worry about what she thinks. You and I can work 
      together. 
          DANE (shrugs) :     Sir. Is there any chance of getting into see Gaz, 
      sir ?

          GELT :     In the morning.

      Dane looks at a door with a red glass window in it. He presses his face to 
      the glass. Through the red glass. Darkroom lighting.

          GELT (V.0.) :     It’s called the Shock Room. It’s not as bad as it 
      sounds.


      Silently screaming boys wired up to weird headsets- pipes lead from their 
      eyes and connect to a spherical machine in the centre of the room.

          GELT :     Particularly violent offenders are allowed to relive and 
      discharge the traumatic childhood experiences which led to their 
      antisocial behaviour.
       
      Gelt steers Dane away.

          GELT :     It can be bitter medicine but...our success rate is 100%.
       

      A red-lit, soundless screaming face.
           
          GELT (V.O) :     Harmony House boys don’t re-offend.


      Gelt walks with Dane.
          
          GELT :     You needn’t be like them I can save you from having to go 
      through that kind of thing. If you work with us.

      Dane glances through a brightly lit round window in another set of doors.


      In a white gymasium, boys crawl around the floor wearing sensory 
      deprivation masks, with three strange protrusions from eyes and mouths. 
      Their blind, meaningless motions are silent and terrifying.
          
          DANE (V.O. guileless) :     Have I to get a medical as well ?



          GELT :     It’s all done alphabetically.
          
      Dane desperately glances at the burglar alarm on the wall as they reach 
      the open doors to the dormitory. A NURSE walks out.

          NURSE :     Lights out . Five minutes.



      A boy lays his book down on his bookcover for lights out. The pages are 
      blank. A pause. The boy looks up. Everything is suddenly strange and 
      threatening.

       
          
          GELT :     Let me ask you a question, Mr. McGowan. In a world where 
      there are clearly masters and slaves, which would you rather be ?
          DANE :     Have I only got two choices, sir ?

          GELT (insistent) :    Master or slave.
           
      Pause. The glass over the alarm cracks suddenly. The bell rings. Gelt 
      cringes slightly. The bell stops.

          DANE :     You better get that fixed, sir. It just keeps going off.
          
          GELT (looking at alarm then Dane) :     Master or slave, Mr. McGowan ?

      On the wall, there’s another odd poster with three strange schematic faces 
      on it. Gelt looks down at Dane, smiles that paedophile’s smile. 
      Insinuating. The overhead light pops, shattering. Glass rains down. Gelt 
      and Dane face one another outside the dormitory. The bell begins to ring 
      persistently.

          DANE :     I don’t know, sir.
          [pause] :  What did you decide ?

      Gelt stiffens. It’s over and he knows it. They can’t use this one and 
      although Gelt would love to spend time breaking Dane, he knows he has to 
      let this one go. He is suddenly cold. A thin smile.

          GELT :     Your privileges have been suspended. Goodnight, Mr. 
McGowan.



      Dane lies awake on his bed, alert. Listening to the far off echoing 
      nightsounds of the place. A trolley’s creaking wheel comes closer. Vague 
      voices. Then the alarm goes off. Dane sits up, spooked. He looks around to 
      see sleeping boys grumble and roll over in the dark. Gaz’ bed lies empty. 
      Over the sirens, we hear the voices. More distinct now.

          ORDERLY :     I’m getting sick of this! How many times has that bloody 
      thing gone off tonight ?   I mean, how many ?

      Dane leaps lightly out of bed and makes for the dorm doors as they open.

          SECOND ORDERLY :     You’re just mad they had to cancel the lottery.
          [knocks at a ringing wall alarm] :     My brother-in-law would have 
      that fixed in five minutes. He’s the one did our microwave.

          ORDERLY :     So what’s the story with this then ? We getting overtime 
      ?
          [bitter]    :     I could have won that!

      Dane’s hiding behind the doors as they swing open and the orderlies come 
      in carrying bedding.

          SECOND ORDERLY :     Dump this little bastard, get the other one down 
      to theatre and then off home in time for some half- baked bollocks on 
      night-time telly. What’s it usually ?
       

      The orderlies walk towards Dane’s empty bed.

          ORDERLY :     Bed number 17. There we go.



      The orderlies approach Dane’s bed, beginning to realise something’s up. 
      Second Orderly looks over to Gaz’s bed.

          ORDERLY :     You sure it’s 17 ?

          SECOND ORDERLY :     That’s what it said. 17. There’s the other one’s 
      bed.

      They look at one another.



      Dane beyond horror. Backing away from Gaz.

          DANE :     Just wait there. Gaz...just wait there.

          GAZ :    Good.


          
          ORDERLY :     Runner.



      Dane gets some sense back in his head. Gaz is making horrible weak noises, 
      trying to attract attention. As the orderlies burst out of the room, Dane 
      is already running, pulling the trolley into their path, kicking things 
      over as he goes. Dane bounds down a flight of stairs. He doesn’t care 
      where he’s going as the siren continues to sound. Everything is panic and 
      flight. There are doors ahead which he recognises - the ‘interesting 
      looking swing doors’ from the earlier scene with Gelt. He bursts through 
      the doors.

      The siren stops dead.

       

      Ambient blue light. Dane freezes as the doors languorously flap to behind 
      him.

          DANE :     Shite.

      A room with shelves all around the walls. On the shelves are countless 
      ranks and rows of what look like big specimen jars. In each jar, floating 
      in a blue-lit solution, are strange foetal shapes - luminously blue, 
      ectoplasmic figures which squirm, unformed in their bottles. Dane picks up 
      one of the bottles and looks at it with quiet awe. The little soul-thing 
      inside moves sluggishly.

          GELT (V.O.) :     We can remove all your anger and frustration.

      Dane turns, panicked, dropping the jar.

          DANE :     Fuck.

      The jar smashes, releasing a swirl of blue smoke and a terrible lost 
      scream. Gelt, with the white-coated doctor in tow, enters the room, 
      closing in.
          
          GELT :     We can make you better and return you to society.

      Gelt fingers the disintegrating soul-smoke and licks his finger.

          GELT :     Isn’t that what you want ? In the end. 

      Dane’s backed up against the wall, eyes searching for a way out.

          DANE :     I wasn’t doing nothing. Honest. It was all that noise.

          GELT :     We’re not listening to you now. You wanted to be normal, 
      like everyone else.

      Gelt and the doctor advance menacingly. Gelt holds out a fatherly hand 
      while the doc prepares a hypo.

          GELT :     I gave you the choice and that’s what you wanted, isn’t it 
      ? You chose a bed in the dormitory, like these. You chose to sleep.
      We can tell that Dane is no longer human in Gelt’s eyes. It’s over. Gelt 
      speaks to him the way an owner would a dog.

          GELT :     Here. Come here. Good boy. Come on.

      As the two men move in on him, Dane’s expression changes. He’s looking 
      between them and he’s seen something. Someone coming in through the door.

          DANE :     I don’t wanna cause any trouble, mister.

          GELT :     You won’t.

      Gelt turns to the doctor, about to speak. Explosions of glass then a 
      gunshot. everything happening rapidly. Gelt’s words freeze in his open 
      mouth as he is splatted with blood and tissue. The doctor goes down with a 
      soft, heavy thump. Gelt manages a gasp and turns to face King Mob in full 
      totemic battle dress. Dane can’t believe this. Gelt makes his escape as 
      King Mob closes on Dane.

          DANE :     Who the fuck are you ?

          KING MOB :     I’m your Fairy Godmother. What’s it look like ?  Stay 
      behind me.


      King Mob emerges, shooting. He seems totally outnumbered by armed security 
      men.



      Wheezing, Gelt makes it to his office.



      Dane, wide-eyed, follows King Mob down the corridor. Blood puddles and 
      dead soldiers everywhere.
          
          DANE :     Jesus!

      Boy is crouched here, emptying the bullets from the rifles of a couple of 
      unsconscious soldiers. King Mob’s unpacking some plastic explosive.

          KING MOB :     Want to see how plastic explosives work ? I learned it 
      on ‘Blue Peter’.

          BOY [impatient] :     Forget it. 
          [gesturing To Dane] :     We’re out of here. Come on



      Gelt’s throwing papers into a brief case. He takes some glowing gizmo from 
      his desk and throws that into the case too. The door bursts open, locks 
      flying.

          KING MOB :     Is the doctor in ?

      Gelt turns to confront King Mob with his gun. We can hear an explosion in 
      the distance. Another. Gelt struggles to retain his composure.

          GELT :     There are dozens of places like this.  We’re building them 
      everywhere.
          [pause] :      We just want to help you.

      He reaches up to his glasses.

          GELT :     Look.  It’s a thing they do to the eyes here.

      King Mob pauses for a moment, fighting some kind of hypnotic spell. Then 
      he raises his gun.

          KING MOB :     You find them I’ll look at them.

      Gunshot. Gelt falls heavily back into the dentist chair. King Mob reaches 
      into his jacket, withdraws a dayglo pink hand grenade. He looks at Gelt’s 
      body.

          KING MOB :     Take one of these and call me in the morning.

      He flips the pin loose and tosses the grenade into Gelt’s lap.


