
      We are inside a grimy warehouse lobby, a busy crime scene 
          investigation under way, all of the CSIs buzzing around 
        the hive of a rusty old FREIGHT ELEVATOR.

        And even the most hardened of the HOMICIDE DETECTIVES are 
        having trouble stomaching this one -- the man we heard 
        earlier still getting sick in a corner of the lobby -- as 
        FLASHPOPS continuously illuminate the CRIME SCENE in 
        lightening flashes of GRISLY SNIPPETS:

        A corpse -- it can t be a human corpse, can it? -- flayed 
        open.  Skinned.  Down to the bone in some places.

        Bloody tendons.  Muscles.  Ligaments.  All void of skin.

        Eyeballs bulging from a ravaged skull.  The eyes of a 
        monster.  A human monster.

      We take lingering looks at a woman s body.

        ANGLE ON the woman s corpse.  

        She is half naked, wearing a fur coat that is almost off.

        Every portion of the woman s sumptuous body now tarnished 
      by smears of blood and cuts and bruises.  So much bodily 
      harm and blots of blood, it s hard to tell what ethnicity 
      this woman was to begin with -- Caucasian, Hispanic, 
        African, Asian...?  We ll likely never know.

        The woman s once beautiful lips now smashed open in some 
        horrifically violent final struggle for life.

      Some appendage -- is it her arm, her leg, her wrist, her 
        knee...? 

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  2.

        CONTINUED:22


      -- is shorn of whatever body part should have been 
        attached there.  The appendage now merely a bloody stump, 
      like a craggy ink-blotter made of flesh and bone.

                                                                    FADE TO BLACK.

      OVER DARKNESS, A TITLE CARD:

                                             PELTS 


33FADE IN ON: A DECREPIT PORCELAIN SINK 

      -- as blood flows down the drain in hypnotic swirls of 
        crimson, a BURLY MAN washing the gore from his BLACK-
        GLOVED HANDS and BLACK RUBBER APRON as we REVEAL that we 
        are inside:



          A down-and-dirty furrier shop.  One might call Fell Furs 
          fly-by-night, were it not for the fact that the place has 
        clearly been in business for a very long time.

          SUPERIMPOSED, A TITLE CARD:

                                   ONE MONTH EARLIER 

        Rusty skinning tables, crusty meat hooks, and tarnished 
        instruments for slicing, cutting, skinning, and sewing 
        are scattered haphazardly throughout the cramped space.

        The man washing his hands at the sink is JAKE FELDMAN 
        (40s), whose pasty complexion and ample girth scream 
            heart-attack-waiting-to-happen.

        A small group of CHINESE FACTORY WORKERS is huddled 
        around Jake, waiting nervously for his reaction --

        The terse silence finally broken when he looks up and 
      nods toward several wilted pelts of fur, decides:

                                        JAKE
                      More dye.

        The factory employees are discouraged -- they SNICKER in 
        angry Chinese -- as Jake finishes taking off his gloves 
        and apron, nods toward LOU CHINASKI (50s), his floor 
        manager and resident enforcer.

      Jake storms off in anger -- frustrated by his business  
        lowly state of affairs -- as Lou barks at the employees:


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  3.

        CONTINUED:44


                                        LOU (O.S.)
                              (to their employees)
                      You heard the Boss -- back to work -- !

        But as Jake continues past his office, heading for the 
        building s exit, Lou calls after him --

                                        LOU (CONT D)
                              (to his boss)
                      What about that meeting -- ?

        But Jake just shrugs -- he doesn t give a shit -- Lou 
        worried about his boss  increasingly erratic behavior:

                                        LOU (CONT D)
                      But it s important, Jake -- !

                                        JAKE
                      You deal with it -- I m outta here -- !

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



      Jake snakes slowly through the strobing lights of the 
        strip club, eardrums pounding with heavy metal Goblin-
        esque beats, a flesh-laden inferno riddled with earthly 
        delights...

      He pushes past the MAIN STAGE and its denizens of DANCING 
        NAKED BODIES and LOWLY ADMIRERS, finally arrives at a 
          CURTAINED-OFF AREA in the back of the room --

      Is halted by a BEEFY BOUNCER.

      Jake knows the routine, takes several bills from his 
        wallet, shoves them into Beefy Bouncer s paw:

        Beefy Bouncer takes his time counting the bills as Jake 
        begins to fidget like a junky in need of a fix...

        And after what seems like an eternity for Jake, Beefy 
        Bouncer steps aside, nods toward the curtains:

                                        BEEFY BOUNCER
                      Shanna s in room twelve.

      Jake nods, pushes ravenously past Beefy Bouncer into the 
      dark mysteries hidden behind the curtain --



      Jake makes his way down a long dark hallway of closed and 
        numbered doors -- the mood cold and dreadful...

        The corridor echoes with the sound of MYRIAD SEXUAL 
        FANTASIES being performed behind the locked doors of 
        these private numbered sex rooms...

        But Jake almost doesn t seem to notice -- is completely 
        preoccupied -- his attention riveted to:

      Door Twelve.  Jake finally arrives at his destination, 
        tentatively knocks, pushes open the door, enters --



      Jake enters into the dark room, illuminated only by five 
        spots.

      He looks around, doesn t see her.  


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  5.

        CONTINUED:99


      Jake notices a lit cigarette in an ashtray.

      He makes his way to the lone chair in the center of the 
        room, under a spot, feebly calls out --

                                        JAKE
                      Shanna...?

        Takes a seat on the rickety chair, hands fidgeting, 
        nervously biting his lips -- definitely in the throes of 
        withdrawal:

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      Shanna -- are you in here -- ?

        Shanna enters through black curtains. Jake is startled by 
        someone MOVING IN SILHOUETTE behind him, under a spot -- 
        almost darting across the frame -- turns to look:

        ANGLE: JAKE S POV -- a VOLUPTUOUS WOMAN stands 
        silhouetted in the corner of the room.  And even the 
        stark outline of this shadowy beauty is intoxicating.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Jake gulps, at once relieved and also 
      more uncomfortable by the presence of this woman --

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                                (breathless)
                      It s so good to see you, I --

                                        SHANNA
                                (disdainful)
                      You stink like rotting flesh.  Fur 
                      Trader!

        SHANNA steps forward into a shaft of light, her beautiful 
      face currently twisted into a scowl of disdain, clearly 
        repulsed by Jake s presence --

      Jake self-consciously adjusts in his seat, apologizes  -- 
        ashamed of who he is in the eyes of his obsession:

                                        JAKE
                      It s -- you know -- it s my work.
                              (a burst of pride)
                      And someday -- someday -- it s gonna 
                      make me a very rich man.
                              (the heart of the matter)
                      You d like that, wouldn t you Shanna?

        But Shanna just smirks --



                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  6.

        CONTINUED:99


                                        SHANNA
                       Someday. 
                                (mocks him)
                      Someday, someday, someday. 
                      If I had a dollar for every  someday  I 
                      heard in this dump, I coulda  bought 
                      myself a job as a supermodel by now.

      Jake lowers his head in defeat...

        And as Shanna continues toward him through the shafts of 
        light in the room, we remain entranced by her perfection:

        Had her life worked out a little differently -- had she 
        caught one or two lucky breaks along the way -- she 
        really could have been a supermodel:

        Shanna is black, very light skinned, scantily clothed in 
        garter belt stockings and bra.  Dark ringlets of hair 
        cascade down her shoulders.

        She is truly one of the most beautiful women we ve ever 
      laid eyes on, the perfection of her face equaled only by 
        the magnificent curves of her body --

        Shanna stands over Jake -- lording over him for a long 
        and dominant moment -- then:

        Slowly turns around -- the focal point of Jake s mad 
        lust, her rear end, now fully revealed as:

                                        SHANNA (CONT'D)
                      No.  That s not allowed.

      More seductively, she rubs her fingers together (where s 
        the money?)

                                        SHANNA (CONT'D)
                      Gimme.

      Jake stuffs his hand into his pocket, comes up with 
        innumerable bills --

        Shoves them into Shanna s hand in a mad frenzy without 
      even counting them out, watches in complete and total 
          mesmerization as:

        Shanna folds the bills with satisfaction, then...



        Shanna sticks her g-stringed rear end within millimeters 
      of Jake s face.

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  7.

        CONTINUED:99


        His nose is almost nestled between her two perfectly 
        formed cheeks, the curves of her rear within kissing 
        distance of his lips; licking distance of his tongue...

      Jake stares slack-jawed.  Literally.  Like some mad 
        prophet paralyzed by sight of his lord. 

        Shanna s buttocks are firm and hard -- the most inviting 
        place in all the world, the image of her g-stringed rear 
        end full of narcotic power:

      Jake instinctively reaches out to grasp her flesh --

        But Shanna swats his hands away like pesky flies --

                                        SHANNA (CONT D)
                                (rubbing her fingers)
                      More money.

      Jake frowns.

        Looks down like a scolded little child.  Nods and gives 
        her the money.

        Looks back up:

        Shanna stands plainly before him -- waiting for the next 
      step in their now-routine give-and-take dance:

      Jake scowls as he pulls out more money, mindlessly feeds 
        his addiction, hands it over to Shanna -- whereupon:

        She smiles ever-so-slightly, then:

        Turns back around.

        Sticks out her rear end again -- just a little bit more 
      this time -- arching her back invitingly --

      Jake bolts to his feet --

        Knocks his chair back with inadvertent violence --

        Shoves Shanna up against the wall --

        Unzipping his pants in the same motion --

        Shanna yelps as Jake tries to take her from behind, 
        ramming up against her perfect rear, trying to slip 
        inside her, but --

        She wriggles out of his grip.


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  8.

        CONTINUED:99


                                        JAKE
                                (imploringly)
                      But I paid you.

                                        SHANNA
                      Not for what you want to do.
                      You know the rules pig.

        She gives him a look and moves away.

        Jake, bewildered, falls to his knees.  

        Watching her, Jake moves to attack her again.

        Shanna picks up a chair.

        Shanna strikes Jake with the chair.

      Jake has a pleading look.

                                        SHANNA (CONT'D)
                      If you don t stop it, I ll call 
                      security.

      Jake nods and looks again at her back side with lust in 
        his eyes.

        She realizes what he s looking at, plants the chair and 
        steps behind it.

                                        SHANNA (CONT'D)
                                (screaming)
                      OUT!  GET OUT!

      Jake is standing at the door.

                                        JAKE
                      I m going, I m going.  But one day 
                      you ll give it to me.

        She throws the chair at him, but he escapes out the door 
      in time.



      We are drowning in a sea of pines, their gnarled branches 
      like the spindly claws of giants groping for morsels.

        A blanket of fog undulates languidly throughout the 
        gloomy wilderness, the thick silence suddenly tinted by 
        the sound of BOOTS CRUNCHING across the bleak landscape:


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  9.

        CONTINUED:1010


        TWO FIGURES skulk through the woods -- and there s 
        something malevolent about the way they move:

        Almost like they are here to commit a crime.

        Maybe even to hurt somebody.

        The older of the two, Jed  PA  JAMESON, is bearded, 
        probably in his early fifties, face as rugged as the 
        savage terrain.

      He carries two empty sacks over his shoulders, and tools 
        for skinning animals in his hands.

        The shorter of the two, Larry JAMESON, is somewhere 
        around eighteen, his cheeks still smooth and void of 
        whiskers, his fingers wrapped tightly around a baseball 
      bat.

        And after several more moments, Larry finally just 
        admits:

                                        LARRY
                      I don t like it this far out here, Pa.

      Pa hisses over his shoulder --

                                        PA
                      Shut up -- !

        Larry grimaces, takes inventory of the wilds that 
        surround them from all sides:

                                        LARRY
                      But what if we get caught...?

      Pa stops, whirls around -- the damp surroundings and 
        early morning cold doing nothing for his temper:

                                        PA
                      Only way we ll get caught is if you keep 
                      yappin  -- now shut up, Larry!

        Larry looks away as Pa glares at him pointedly then 
        lumbers into the woods.  Larry tightens his grip on the 
      bat, follows hesitantly...

        ANGLE: A NO TRESPASSING SIGN -- juts from the ground, the 
        sparse woods and clearing behind it strangled by a rusty 
        barbed wire fence.

      Pa brazenly strides past the sign, holds up one of the 
        strands of barbed wire for Larry to pass through --

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  10.

        CONTINUED:1010


        But his son bites his lip, looks beyond the fence:

                                        LARRY
                      That s Mother Mayter s land ain t it, 
                      Pa?

                                        PA
                      And -- ?

        Larry nods at the NO TRESPASSING sign --

                                        LARRY
                      We re not supposed to go there, are we?

        But Pa bristles at the notion -- Larry quick to defend 
        himself --

                                        LARRY (CONT D)
                      But what if there s a reason people 
                      don t go this deep into the woods...?
                              (the heart of the matter)
                      What if something gets us?

      Pa scowls in frustration:

                                        PA
                      Didn t I come in here and set the traps 
                      yesterday?

        Larry nods.

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      And didn t I come out okay?

        Larry nods again:

                                        LARRY
                      Yeah, but --

                                        PA
                      Yeah but nothin  -- Mother Mayter s done 
                      a good job of spreadin  stories for 
                      generations to scare folks off her land.  
                      A bunch of crap.  But her stories don t 
                      scare me.
                                (defiant)
                      I know bullshit when I hear it.

      Pa lifts the strands of barbed wire higher, nearly 
        pulling them to their breaking point:

        Larry takes a deep breath, slips through the fence, 
        crossing over into Mother Mayter s land.                                                                       "Pelts"  11.





        The back wall is covered with stretched raccoon pelts, 
        the skinning table smeared with blood, the tools used in 
        the process caked with gore --

        A bottle of Moonshine, slams atop the table as Pa wipes 
        his lips -- has clearly been drinking ever since they got 
      back home -- holds up one of the unstretched pelts by its 
        tail:

                                        PA
                      Thick as can be and not a scar or bald 
                      spot on any of  em -- primes, Larry!

        Larry looks up from the stretching board, watches as his 
        father sets the pelt down, then looks to the fur covered 
      wall -- is as happy as he s ever been in his entire life:

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  16.

        CONTINUED:1515


                                        PA (CONT D)
                      And the amazing thing is that they re 
                      all identical -- like all them coons 
                      were part of one big family or 
                      somethin .

                                        LARRY
                      Yeah, they re beauts all right, Pa.

      They both stop talking -- almost hypnotized by the pelts; 
      like staring into the dancing flames of a fire -- then 
        stand back in silence to admire their catch:

        ANGLE: THE WALL COVERED WITH PELTS -- the gray furs glow 
        a pale metallic blue color in the light of the barn, 
        something truly supernatural about their beauty.

        Larry moves to the pelts -- almost seems drawn to them -- 
      arms outstretched reverentially as he reaches toward one 
      of the metallic blue furs:

      He gently strokes it, his face suddenly tinged with 
        euphoria as he turns to his father, almost embarrassed:

                                        LARRY
                      Gives me a funny feeling.  Makes me feel 
                      all warm inside.

      Pa just chuckles -- his disdain palpable:

                                        PA
                      All that money Feldman  gonna pay for 
                       em -- that s what gives me a warm 
                      feeling.

        Larry lets go of the pelt -- embarrassed -- nods as Pa 
      gets to his feet and stretches wearily:

                                        PA
                      I m gonna hit the sack after I give 
                      Feldman a call -- you clean up out here, 
                      understand?

                                        LARRY
                      Yes, sir.

      Pa nods --  good  -- stumbles drunkenly from the barn.



      Jake sits front and center in the raunchy strip club as 
        Shanna performs an erotic striptease on the main stage:

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  17.

        CONTINUED:1616


        Shanna knows how to use her body:

        Every movement inducing something akin to hypnosis, her 
        rhythms slow and sensual and intoxicating.

      Jake stares unblinkingly at the object of his desire, his 
      eyes glued to the most extreme facet of his obsession:

        Shanna s backside.

        Swaying slowly from side to side, dipping low, raising 
        high, always gyrating invitingly.

      At the base of the stage, we see MIRA (20s), a beautiful 
        and lithe young woman, who is also excited by Shanna s 
        nudity.  Her facial expressions show her appreciation.  

        Shanna reciprocates.

        And although every man scattered throughout the seedy 
      club is transfixed by Shanna, Jake s obsession shines 
        through with the zealotry of the truly obsessed --

      Is pissed off when his CELL PHONE RINGS --

        Jolting him from Shanna s performance:

      Jake looks down at his phone, sees that it s JED JAMESON, 
        answers abruptly --

                                        JAKE
                              (into cell phone)
                      This better be good, Jameson.

        Whereupon we CROSS CUT between THE STRIP CLUB and THE 
        JAMESON HOUSE, PA S BEDROOM as the two men converse:

      Pa sits, examines his dwindling bottle of moonshine as he 
        talks into the receiver --

                                        PA
                      How about pelts of such outstanding 
                      quality you re gonna be willing to pay 
                      ten times the going price to have  em, 
                      but that out of the goodness of my 
                      heart, I m gonna give you first 
                      crack...?

                                        JAKE
                      You re giving me first crack  cuz I m 
                      the only chump east of the Pacific Ocean 
                      who ll still take your calls.


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  18.

        CONTINUED:1616


      Pa chafes at that, starts to hang up --

                                        PA
                      Your loss, Feldman.

        But there s something about Pa s willingness to allow 
      Jake to pass on his offer -- rather than desperately 
        pleading to convince him -- that piques Jake s interest:

                                        JAKE
                      Wait, wait, wait -- hold up.
                              (Pa stops)
                      What s the stock...?

                                        PA
                      Coon.

      Jake grumbles disinterestedly --

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      But trust me, Feldman -- you ain t never 
                      seen no pelts like these.
                                (beat)
                      They ll make you a rich man.  They ll 
                      get you whatever it is your heart 
                      desires.

      Jake looks back to Shanna:

        She makes eye contact with him -- looks away quickly with 
        her usual sneer of revulsion -- as Jake returns his 
        attention to his conversation with Pa:

                                        JAKE
                      You better not be bullshitting me, 
                      Jameson: I don t have time to head out 
                      to the fucking boonies on some wild 
                      goddamned goose chase.

      Pa just leers, practically spits into the phone --

                                        PA
                      Just get down here.

        Slams the receiver down.  Hard.  Sits in silence for a 
        moment, savoring his small victory.



        ANGLE: ON JAKE, BACK IN THE STRIP CLUB -- as Shanna 
        continues her sultry striptease, removes her panties, 
      Jake unable to take his eyes off her naked backside:


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  19.

        CONTINUED:1616


                                        JAKE
                                (intense)
                      Better not be bullshitting me.

      POV: MEDIUM WIDE Pa walking back and forth behind the 
        window

                                                                        TIME CUT TO:



        Larry has nearly finished cleaning the barn when he sees 
      Pa s bedroom light shut off through the barn window.

      He turns to the small handful of pelts remaining to be 
        stretched, when out of the corner of his eye --

        Something moves in the darkness of the barn s shadows.

        Larry turns in the direction of the movement --

        ANGLE: Larry S POV -- as we stare into the ominous 
        darkness in the barn, nervously examining its dark abyss, 
        finally determining that there s nothing there.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Larry stares into the shadows a moment 
        longer, finally just smiles self-deprecatingly.

        Shakes off the last of his tired nerves, turns to the 
        pelts remaining to be stretched, is once again captivated 
      by their hypnotic beauty:

                                        LARRY
                                (reverential)
                      They re so damn beautiful.

      He rubs his fingers on one of the pelts -- thick and soft 
        and inviting -- and it s clear that the  warm  feeling 
        has slipped over him again...

        His face is awash with a druggy euphoria as --

        Larry drapes the pelt over his arm --

        Begins caressing it, whereupon --

        Larry really, deeply, madly loses himself in this 
        pleasurable experience.

        Larry curls his lips into a satiated smile, then looks 
        out the barn window toward Pa s darkened bedroom window.


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  20.

        CONTINUED:1717


        His expression darkens as his gaze drifts down from the 
      barn window to:

        The baseball bat.

        Propped against the wall.  Caked with dried-blood.

      He grabs the bat.  Exits the barn.  Heads purposefully 
        toward the house.



        Larry stands over Pa s slumbering body, watches his 
        father sleep with a malignant intensity, the room s walls 
      -- like the rest of the Jameson house -- plastered with 
        the stuffed heads of numerous animals...

        Larry suddenly pokes Pa s snoring body with the bat:

                                        LARRY
                      Pa -- wake up!

      Pa stirs, groggily opens his drunken eyes:

                                        PA
                      What is it, son?  What do you want?  

        But Larry just continues to stare at his father -- dazed -
        - holding the bat threateningly within striking 
        distance...

      Pa realizes Larry is holding the bat, the older man s 
        supremely confused expression saying it all --  what the 
      fuck is going on?  -- as Larry suddenly raises the bat 
      over his head, repeats the advice Pa gave him earlier:

                                        LARRY
                      That s where the bat comes in.

      Pa flinches in confusion, holds up his hands defensively:

                                        PA
                      Hey now -- hold on -- !

        Which forces Larry to stop mid-swing as he breaks into 
        amused laughter --

        And that does it for Pa -- he s had enough -- starts out 
      of bed to administer a severe beating:




                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  21.

        CONTINUED:1818


                                        PA (CONT D)
                                (enraged)
                      The fuck you think you re doin , boy -- 
                      ?

      He lunges fiercely at Larry --

        But Larry is too quick --

        Swings the bat down with all his might --

        Lands a crippling blow over Pa s right ear --

      Pa grunts and stiffens at the force of the blow --

        But Larry is only getting started:

      He swings the bat again, full-force --

      Pa stumbles backward -- his movements stunned and 
        grotesque to behold, like a decapitated chicken moving 
        purely on instinct -- accidentally tumbles into the wall:  
      Like a frightened raccoon.

        Larry is approaching his father.  He lifts the baseball 
        bat high, as:

        DETAIL: PA S FRIGHTENED EYEBALL.  

                                        LARRY
                                (dazed sounding)
                      I seen it take upwards of fifty swings 
                      one time.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Pa registers the quickest moment of 
        horror, whereupon --

        Larry lets loose with the bat --

        ANGLE: THEIR SHADOWS ON THE WALL (NOTE: SIMILAR TO THE 
        OPENING OF ARGENTO S DEEP RED, WHEREIN WE SEE THE MURDER 
      IN SHADOW BEFORE THE BLOODY KNIFE FALLS TO THE FLOOR) -- 
      as Larry swings down with the bat harder and harder and 
        harder on his father s body --

        Again.  And again.  And again.

        And again and again and again and again and again -- 
        until Larry s swung the bat over fifty brutal times.

      BACK TO SCENE: as THE BLOODY BAT drops into frame, Larry 
        finally stopping to examine his handiwork, exhausted and 
        out of breath:

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  22.

        CONTINUED:1818


        ANGLE: Larry S POV -- Pa s head looks like pulpy globs of 
        jelly smeared along the wall and floor.

        Shards of cracked bone are splintered around the gaping 
      hole where his face used to be.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Larry studies Pa s wrecked corpse a 
        moment longer then turns away, exits the room --

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



        The darkness of the barn is pierced by sunlight as Lou 
        helps Jake lift the barn door -- both of them reeling 
        back:

                                        LOU
                      No matter how many times I smell it, 
                      I ll never get used to the stench of 
                      dried blood.

        Lou quickly puts a handkerchief to his nose, follows Jake 
      into the darkness of the barn, the sunlight barely able 
      to illuminate its cavernous hollows.

      Jake swipes at the pull string for the incandescent bulbs 
        overhead, but they ve all been shattered.  Foreboding.





                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  23.

        CONTINUED:2020


        And as they walk through the barn -- all of its heavy 
        machinery and instruments for killing and cutting and 
        skinning silhouetted in the foreground -- the scene is 
        suddenly awash in a pervasive sense of dread:

      Is Larry lurking somewhere in the barn s darkness?

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      Jameson...?

        But his voice is muffled by the surroundings, the 
        suspense mounting with every step they take deeper into 
        the malevolence of the barn...

      Jake stops, Lou bumping into him from behind:

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      Oh.  My.  God.

        REVEAL: he has discovered the wall covered with the 
        gorgeous pelts, the fur shimmering more brightly than 
        ever, reflecting glints of opalescence from the dim 
        sunlight inside the barn.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Jake and Lou forget their concerns, 
        throwing caution to the wind -- which only makes us more 
        tense -- as they approach the shrine of pelts:

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      Jameson wasn t bullshitting me.

      Jake caresses one of the furs, shuts his eyes with the 
        quick dose of bliss, lets go of it and turns to Lou:

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      How many years we been in the fur trade, 
                      Lou -- fifteen, twenty...?
                              (off Lou s nod)
                      You ever seen anything like these pelts?

                                        LOU
                      Nothin , boss.  Absolutely nothin .

      Jake gently caresses another of the shimmering pelts, 
        shakes his head in awe, visions of money and fame -- and 
        Shanna -- dancing around in his head:

                                        JAKE
                      Pelts like these?  Sky s the limit.
                                (filled with lust)
                      We could have anything our hearts 
                      desire.


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  24.

        CONTINUED:2020


      Jake is nearly breathless with the thought of Shanna and 
      that perfect body of hers...

        SOMETHING CRASHES LOUDLY behind them --

      Both men turn around defensively --

                                        JAKE (CONT'D)
                      The fuck is that...?

      Jake and Lou head into the basement.



      Dark and dirty. 

                                        JAKE 
                      That you, Jed...?

      No response.

      Jake and Lou approach --

      Both men suddenly reeling back in horror --

                                        JAKE (CONT'D)
                      Fucking hell -- !

      They find Larry dead, his face shorn off by a bear trap.

        ANGLE: are the pelts on the wall glowing even more 
        brightly now, somehow feeding off of this atrocity...?

                                        LOU
                                (putting it together)
                      Jesus Christ, Jake -- he fell face first 
                      into it. 

      Jake grimaces in confusion, then follows Lou s gaze to 
        Larry s body. 



        Larry is back in the barn after having killed Pa, 
        admiring the wall-mounted pelts of fur, when -- Larry s 
      face assumes a strange, decisive expression.                                                                        "Pelts"  25.





        Larry turns and gently lifts one of the larger traps used 
        for bears off of its hook on the wall.

      He places it with care on the table opens the jaw of the 
        trap, and sets the trap.  

        ANGLE: TIGHT ON the pelts.  They are emitting a magical 
        glimmer, never seen before.

        Larry smiles and turns around again to face the trap.

      He looks at the trap and smiling throws his face into the 
        centre of the trap. 

        The jaws of the trap release like a guillotine and cut 
        off the front of face.

        Larry, with half his face removed, vibrates and dies, 
        rolling over, showing us the mutilation caused by the 
      bear trap. 


2424SMASH CUT BACK TO PRESENT 

      Jake winces in disgust having put together what Larry did 
      to himself, suddenly wonders --

                                        JAKE
                      Jed -- where s Jed -- ?

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



        Flies buzz around Pa s mangled corpse.

      Jake and Lou stand somberly over the grisly, blood-soaked 
        scene -- the sheets of the bed, the walls, the floor, 
        everything literally wet with blood -- absently batting 
        the flies away.

        Lou suddenly gags and rushes from the room as Jake 
        continues to stare in disbelief at Pa s body.

      He hears Lou hurrying down the hallway and racing 
        outside.

        Puking his guts out.                                                                       "Pelts"  26.





        Mira, the gorgeous young woman we met earlier, lies naked 
      on a chair in the center of the tiny dressing room:

        She bites her lip in the throes of intense pleasure as 
        her naked body arches, her lover s face buried deep 
        between her legs --

                                        MIRA
                      Oh, yeah -- that s it...

        THERE S A KNOCK ON THE DOOR --

        But Mira is unable to pull herself away from the 
        addictive pleasure of her lover s tongue, tries her best 
      to ignore the sound --

        But when it KNOCKS AGAIN --

        Shanna s face suddenly pops up from between Mira s legs, 
        scowls angrily at the closed door --


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  30.

        CONTINUED:2929


                                        SHANNA
                              (at the knocking door)
                      Goddamnit -- !

                                        MIRA
                                (begging Shanna)
                      Please don t stop, baby -- !

        But Shanna ignores her lover s plea, continues toward the 
      door -- Mira rolling her eyes, starting to get dressed:

                                        MIRA (CONT D)
                      I m sick of this shit -- !

        Shanna looks back at her lover, commands:

                                        SHANNA
                      Chill out, okay?

      Mira scowls --  whatever  -- but does as she s told.

        Shanna grabs a robe, covers her body, hurries across the 
      room to answer the door:

        ANGLE: AT THE DRESSING ROOM DOOR -- as Shanna pushes it 
      open a crack, revealing previously seen Beefy Bouncer:

                                        SHANNA (CONT D)
                      Yeah...?

                                        BEEFY BOUNCER
                      Somebody here to see you, Shanna.  Says 
                      it s important.

                                        SHANNA
                      Well tell him I m busy -- !

        But from down the dark hallway, we suddenly hear Jake:

                                        JAKE
                      Shanna, it s me -- Jake Feldman.

        Shanna can t mask her look of disappointment as Jake 
        barrels forward, the Beefy Bouncer standing defensively 
        between them --

        Shanna just sighs in frustration, nods at Beefy Bouncer:

                                        SHANNA
                      It s okay -- he s harmless.
                                (cutting)
                      Smells like a goddamned slaughterhouse, 
                      but harmless.

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  31.

        CONTINUED:2929


        Beefy Bouncer shares a smirk with Shanna, moves back down 
        the dimly lit hallway as Jake steps forward -- can t help 
        himself from trying to get a look at Shanna s body and 
        her perfect rear end through her skimpy robe -- 

      Mira puts on her shoes and her robe.

                                        JAKE
                                (distracted by her body)
                      I have a business proposition for you.

      Mira leaves the room and shoots a look to Jake on her way 
      out.

        Shanna instinctively pulls her robe around her body, 
        takes particular care to cover her rear end --

                                        SHANNA
                      I ve heard your  propositions  before, 
                      man: how many times do I have to tell 
                      you I m not into that -- I m never gonna 
                      let you have that, not for all the money 
                      in the world.

        She goes to close her dressing room door, but --

                                        JAKE
                      This is straight down the line business.

        And Shanna suddenly seems the tiniest bit hesitant to end 
        the conversation --

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      I m making a coat that I want you to 
                      wear next month.
                              (for emphasis)
                      At Sirio.

        Shanna is immediately intrigued -- her eyes lighting up 
      at the mention of the world s biggest international fur 
        show, her dreams of being a supermodel rekindled:

                                        SHANNA
                      Sirio?

      Jake nods fervently...

        But Shanna s intrigue quickly gives way to doubt -- doubt 
      in Jake, to be sure, but also doubt in herself: she s 
      been dancing in strip clubs for a long time now...




                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  32.

        CONTINUED:2929


                                        SHANNA (CONT D)
                      It s been a while since I ve done a 
                      legitimate fashion show...

      Jake leans forward, knows when he s about to make a deal, 
        voice still calm as can be:

                                        JAKE
                      You ll want to do the show -- you ll 
                      want to do anything -- once you see the 
                      coat I m making for you.  These... these 
                      pelts -- they re unbelievable.

        Jake s confidence is a side of his personality Shanna s 
        never seen before -- and even the simple mention of the 
        pelts has somehow had an almost alchemist-like effect on 
        the conversation:

      Jake is actually getting through to Shanna as she steps 
        further out into the hallway, can t believe she s 
        actually intrigued by a proposition from Jake Feldman:

      Is it our imagination, or is she actually allowing Jake 
      to get a better look at her gorgeous rear end...?

                                        SHANNA
                      Well... we ll see, okay...?

      Jake admires Shanna s body, can barely contain himself -- 
        breathlessly mutters:

                                        JAKE
                      The coat ll be ready next week.  I ll 
                      bring it by your place.

        Shanna thinks on it for a moment, Jake leaning forward in 
        nervous anticipation --

        Shanna turns, lets her scantily robed rear end brush up 
        against Jake s crotch, seductively glances over her 
        shoulder as she returns to her dressing room --

                                        SHANNA
                      We ll see...

      At that she closes the door on Jake, his lust swirling 
        madly all around him, driving him on as he rushes from 
        the dark confines of the strip club, determined to make 
        his life s work quench his obsessive desire for Shanna.

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:                                                                       "Pelts"  33.





        The pelts are cut into matching swaths of fur by a HUGE 
      PAIR OF STEEL SCISSORS, as SERGIO, the factory s obese 
        cutter (40s), begins the LETTING-OUT PROCESS...

      Jake comes into the foreground --

                                        JAKE 
                      No, no, no -- !

      He storms to Sergio --

        Grabs the scissors from Benny s black gloved hands --

      Sets the pelt on the cutting table --

      Then tenderly cuts a large strip from the center of the 
        pelt, taking his time, as careful as can be...

      Once finished, Jake turns back to Sergio, points the 
        scissors at him:

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      Fuck up like that again and I ll cut 
                      your nuts off myself, capiche?

        Sergio nods -- mortified -- gets back to work as Jake 
        skulks away.


      I/E. SERGIO S PARKED CAR - NIGHT (MONTAGE)3131

        Sergio s car is pulled to the side of the road on a quiet 
      city street.

      He sits behind the wheel, radio playing quietly, takes a 
      swig of booze straight from the bottle, then:

        Looks down to his lap:

        ANGLE: SERGIO S LAP -- he has something smuggled inside 
      of a brown paper bag.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Sergio takes another swig of booze, 
      then slowly unwraps the paper bag. His face goes slack 
      with desire whereupon we REVEAL:

        Sergio has smuggled the large STEEL SCISSORS from the 
        factory, rubs his fingers tenderly over their glimmering 
        blades, then:


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  34.

        CONTINUED:3131


        Eases his seat back, almost sexually...

        Unbuttons his shirt...

        Exposing his flabby belly --

        Takes one more long pull of booze for liquid courage, 
      then --

        Punctures his fleshy abdomen with the sharp scissors --

        Begins to cut a swath of flesh from the center of his 
        stomach up to his throat...

      Then he pulls out his guts.

                                                                      HARD CUT TO: 



        Sue-Chin Yao, the elderly Chinese seamstress, leading her 
        small team of seamstresses:

      They work diligently with their needles, sewing the pelts 
        together with sharp needles and thick black chords of 
        thread -- up and down, up and down, up and down -- almost 
        hypnotic to watch...



        Lou and Jake are in Jake s office.

        Lou suddenly daydreaming out loud --

                                        LOU
                      Can you imagine an endless supply of 
                      those pelts, boss...?

      Jake shakes his head -- he truly cannot imagine how much 
      of herself Shanna would give to him, and how often she 
        would do it, with an endless supply of coats like this.  

                                        LOU (CONT D)
                      All it d take is two of the coons from 
                      wherever Jameson trapped  em.

      Jake frowns in momentary confusion -- but as he turns 
        toward Lou his face is suddenly alight:

                                        JAKE
                      A breeding pair.

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  35.

        CONTINUED:3333


        Lou nods absently as the notion rolls around Jake s head 
        a moment longer, and then -- spurred on by Lou s 
        inadvertent suggestion -- he rushes away.

                                        LOU
                      Where re you goin ?

        But Jake is already gone --

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:


      I/E. JAKE S CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT3434

      Jake drives rapidly along the familiar route to the 
        Jamesons, once again seen from high above the night sky.



        The floor is peppered with evidence cones and cordoned 
        off with yellow crime scene tape.

        There is blood on the floor, blood on the walls, and 
        blood on the bed.

      Jake searches frantically through Pa s bedroom:

                                        JAKE
                      Where d you trap those pelts, Jameson?

        Suddenly stops, eyes alight with excitement:

        ANGLE: JAKE S POV -- of an old PROSPECTOR S MAP tacked 
        haphazardly to the wall, Jed having recently circled the 
        portion of the map scrawled,  MOTHER MAYTER S LAND. 

      Jake rips the prospector s map from the wall, starts to 
      rush away -- turns back around:

        Swipes a bottle of moonshine from Jake s stash.


      I/E. JAKE S CAR (MOVING) - NIGHT3636

        Jake s car traverses deep into the foreboding darkness of 
        the wilds, bumps slowly along the foreseen twin rut road.

      He stops to look around. 

        His headlights barely pierce the black wilds of the 
        forest ahead, their beams of illumination receding into 
        nothingness amidst the rancorous sea of pines.

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  36.

        CONTINUED:3636


      Jake peers into the woods, glances at the prospector s 
        map and bottle of moonshine on his passenger seat --

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



      Jake is covered in pine sap and itchy brambles as he 
        clings to the bottle of moonshine and prospector s map, 
        finally stumbles upon Mother Mayter s NO TRESPASSING 
        sign.

      Jake double-checks the map -- then crosses over into 
        Mother Mayter s land...



      Jake skulks through the same ominous stretch of woods 
        nestled deep inside the heart of Mother Mayter s land --

        The foreboding STONE SCULPTURE WALL looms all around him 
        out of the foggy and silhouetted background -- almost 
      like a protective sentinel.

        Watching over Jake.  Displeased by his presence.

      He eventually slips through the same crevice in the wall 
      that Pa and Larry previously traversed through...

        Finally crosses into the clearing where Pa and Larry 
        trapped the raccoons, the approximately dozen splotches 
      of crimson still marring the ground like fading oil 
        slicks.

        Suddenly stops, squints into the surrounding darkness:

        ANGLE: JAKE S POV -- numerous tiny lights surround the 
        perimeter of the clearing.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Jake blinks in fear -- it s a very 
        strange sight -- suddenly GASPS IN DISBELIEF:

        REVEAL: JAKE S POV -- the  lights  are actually BEADY 
        ANIMALS  EYES, aglow with the light from the moon, 
        silently watching Jake skulk through their land.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Jake rushes more quickly toward Mother 
        Mayter s cabin, disturbed by the unsettling image.                                                                       "Pelts"  37.





        Mother Mayter sits in a rickety chair -- stares silently 
      into the fire:

        Its tongues of orange and red dance in the dull 
        reflections of her fuzzy eyeballs.

        She sits silent and still.  As if mummified.

      Jake stands uncomfortably across from her -- raises the 
        bottle of moonshine he brought as an offering:



                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  38.

        CONTINUED:4040


                                        JAKE
                      Would you care for a drink...?

        Mother Mayter doesn t answer his question.

        Finally just nods across the room:

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      Sit.

      Jake looks to where she directs his attention, discovers:

        A timeworn footstool.

      He shrugs, sets the bottle of moonshine down, sits on the 
        footstool across from her, isn t sure how to begin...

        Mother Mayter finally reminds him:

                                        MOTHER MAYTER (CONT'D)
                      You wanted to see me.

      Jake nods quickly -- 

                                        JAKE
                                  (uncomfortable)
                      Yeah -- I was wondering about the 
                      animals -- you know, the ones on your 
                      land...?

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      What do you want to know?

        She takes a swig from her bottle of brandy.

                                        JAKE
                      Where are they?  Why are there so many 
                      of them

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      The Pine Lights you mean?

      Jake shakes his head.

                                        JAKE
                                (perplexed)
                       Pine lights? 

        Mother Mayter nods -- a hint of excitement crossing her 
        weathered old face:

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      You ve heard of them?

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  39.

        CONTINUED:4040


      Jake just shakes his head:

                                        JAKE
                      No.

        Mother Mayter nods -- she didn t think he would have -- 
      then elucidates:

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      The Pine lights have been around since 
                      the Before Times.

                                        JAKE
                       The Before Times? 

        Mother Mayter nods slowly, her ancient face chiseled like 
        one of the ancient stone statues that guards the 
        perimeter of her land:

      Jake takes another big swig of moonshine -- knows this 
        could take a while...

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      About two centuries ago --

      Jake nearly spits out his mouthful of booze --

                                        JAKE
                                (incredulous)
                       Centuries -- ? 

        But Mother Mayter only nods.  Nonplussed.

      As if she was there when it happened.

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      Many years ago a whole nest of the Pine 
                      Lights gathered deep in the woods; in 
                      the clearing just beyond here.  They 
                      became the sentinels of the lost city.

      Jake thinks on this -- surely the old woman must be 
        losing her mind -- the silence thick and uncomfortable 
        inside the cabin.

                                        JAKE
                      So... the Pine Lights, the clearing.
                                (confused)
                      What does that have to do with anything?

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      It s why I walled off my land.
                              (a creepy little smile)
                                        (MORE)
                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  40.

        CONTINUED:4040

                                        MOTHER MAYTER (CONT'D)
                      It s why I warn people about 
                        trespassing.

        And Jake suddenly makes the chilling realization --

                                        JAKE
                      Wait a second -- 
                                (nervous)
                      You re trying to keep people off your 
                      land, to... --
                              (puts it all together)
                      To protect them?

        Mother Mayter nods -- is she actually getting a kick out 
      of this -- as Jake looks away, his attention landing out 
        the window toward the clearing:

        ANGLE: THROUGH THE WINDOW -- myriad FLICKERING LIGHTS are 
        hovering just outside the window in the darkness of the 
        night, like little drops of moonlight --

      BACK TO SCENE: as Jake starts from his chair defensively, 
        jumpy in light of Mother Mayter s revelations about the 
        spooky Pine Lights --

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                                (motioning to window)
                      Is -- is that them -- ?
                                (scared)
                      Are those the Pine Lights -- ?

        But Mother Mayter remains silent and takes a swig of her 
        brandy.


        ANGLE: JAKE S POV -- as he looks back out the window, his 
      eyes adjusting to the darkness beyond the window as he 
        realizes Mother Mayter is right:

        The  lights  are actually myriad moon-tinted animals  
      eyes staring into the cabin from outside, as if watching 
        the exchange.  Standing guard over Mother Mayter.

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      I was just wondering if you d be willing 
                      to let me have a couple of the... the 
                        raccoons...?
                                (nervous)
                      Obviously I d be willing to pay you for 
                      them.

        But Mother Mayter just stares at Jake from her chair for 
        a long and uncomfortable moment -- her face set in a 
        stony scowl.  As if making some important decision...

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  41.

        CONTINUED:4040


        Finally gets to her feet:

        And she is much more agile -- much quicker -- than we 
        remember:

      Gone is the hobbling old lady, a dexterous and nibble 
        hunchbacked creature seemingly having taken her place -- 
      like some type of agile gypsy or witch:

        Mother Mayter scuttles rapidly across her cabin s floor 
        toward the fire --

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                                (looking into the fire)
                      It was you the other night, wasn t it?  
                      You killed them.

        But Jake just shakes his head -- his fear mounting:

                                        JAKE
                      No, ma am, of course not.

        Mother Mayter takes a pitchfork off the wall, whirls 
        around on Jake and levels it at him:

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      You re the reason they died -- only to 
                      satisfy your vanity and callousness -- !

        Mother Mayter is about to lunge at Jake with the 
        pitchfork --

      He darts from his footstool just in time to avoid her and 
      runs toward the door --

      Jake exits.

        The fiery blades of the pitchfork stab into the cabin 
      wall behind where he was sitting --



        And upon entering the factory, Jake is dismayed to 
        realize that the normal hustle-and-bustle in this hive of 
        activity is nonexistent:

        All of the machines are down, the floor is empty, and the 
        SEAMSTRESSES are huddled in a corner of the room:



      Jake notices Lou up ahead on the floor -- back turned, 
        examining something -- walks toward him, the sense of 
        dread palpable:

        ANGLE: ON LOU -- as he hears Jake approach, turns around:

        His face is ashen.  His forehead sweaty.  With shock.

                                        JAKE
                      What s the matter, Lou...?

        But Lou just nods toward the floor -- mutters:

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  43.

        CONTINUED:4343


                                        LOU
                      Sue-Chin Yao.

        REVEAL: ON THE FLOOR -- the corpse of Sue-Chin Yao, the 
        elderly Chinese seamstress.

                                        JAKE
                      What the hell happened?

                                        LOU
                      Suffocated.

                                        JAKE
                                (incredulous)
                      What?

        But Lou just nods back toward the body as Jake realizes:

        ANGLE ON: Sue-Chin Yao S NOSTRILS, MOUTH, and EYES -- 
      both sewn tightly shut with the thick black thread she 
        was using on the coat s silk lining.

                                        LOU
                      We had the  em pull an all-nighter to 
                      make sure the coat was ready, and 
                      apparently she sent the other 
                        seamstresses home around four in the 
                      morning -- said she could finish 
                      herself.
                                (dumbfounded)
                      She was the only one here when this 
                      happened.

      Jake suddenly notices Sue-Chin Yao s sewing needle and 
        thread tightly-gripped between her elderly fingers.

                                                                    SMASH CUT TO: 



      as Sue-Chin Yao works all alone in the factory, 
        frantically sewing, holding tightly to the piece of fur 
        she is working on -- 



        A peaceful look slowly washes over her face, whereupon --

        Sue-Chin Yao methodically raises the sewing needle and 
        thick chord of thread to her nostril...

        Takes a moment, then:

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  44.

        CONTINUED:4444


        Pierces the soft cartilage of her nostril with the 
        needle...

        Finds the will to sew the nostril completely shut...

      Does the same with her eyelids...

      Then to her mouth s brittle old lips...

        Blood trickling down in tiny rivulets...

        She punctures her own flesh with the thick needle and 
        black chord of thread...

      Sews the last piece of her lips shut...

        Begins to suffocate, writhing madly on the floor --


4545HARD CUT BACK TO SCENE 

      - as we realize the thick pelt that had swallowed her 
      hand is nowhere to be found.

      Jake continues to stare at the elderly corpse, is stunned 
      to realize the implications of this grisly finding:

                                        JAKE
                      She did this to herself -- ?

        Lou shrugs -- knows it sounds crazy -- nods in disbelief.

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      Well have you called the police yet?

                                        LOU
                      I was waiting for you.

                                        JAKE
                      Go ahead and call them, but keep things 
                      as quiet as possible; last thing we 
                      need s a bunch of bad publicity.

      Jake turns to go, but Lou nervously stops him --

                                        LOU
                      Jake -- you know -- a lot of bad shit s 
                      been happening around here ever since we 
                      started workin  on this coat.

        Lou averts his gaze -- 



                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  45.

        CONTINUED:4545


                                        LOU
                      It s like it s cursed or something.

      Jake scowls at Lou until his old floor manager --

                                        JAKE
                      I don t believe in curses, Lou.

      Jake then steps over the elderly seamstresses body with a 
        boorish lack of respect, continues down the aisle --

        ANGLE: FURTHER DOWN THE FLOOR -- as Jake s eyes suddenly 
        light up, all of his troubles immediately washed away by 
        the sight of:

        REVEAL: the FINISHED COAT.  Draped majestically over the 
        torso of a faceless mannequin, literally lording over the 
        factory and its recent spate of grisly proceedings.

        Its fur glistens beneath the factory s lamps.

        Almost seems thicker now.  As if recently satiated.

      Jake greedily grabs the coat, starts from the factory --



      He rushes across the lobby to the lift shaft -- familiar 
      to observant viewers from our film s opening -- stops for 
        a moment, unsure of what to do:

        ANGLE ON: THE LIFT -- as Jake faces a HEAVY STEEL PANEL 
        studded with rivets.

      He looks around, discovers a LEVER beside the lift, pulls 
      down on it, whereupon --




                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  46.

        CONTINUED:4848


        The STEEL PANEL splits open from top-to-bottom, dividing 
      into a pair of HUGE METAL DOORS that open vertically, the 
        top one sliding upward, the bottom one sinking into the 
        ground.

      At that he slides open the RICKETY GRATE of the roofless 
        lift, steps inside the elevator shaft, closes the grate 
        behind him, then pushes the THIRD FLOOR BUTTON.

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



        Shanna looks through the peephole of her front door, is 
        disappointed to see Jake standing in the hallway, with 
        the jacket bag in his hand --

        She s clearly had second thoughts since the other day --

                                        SHANNA
                                (looking into the peephole)
                      You shouldn t have come here, Jake.

                                        JAKE
                                (through the peephole)
                      I just wanted you to see it.

        And amidst Shanna s hesitancy Jake gets an idea:

        ANGLE: IN THE HALLWAY -- as Jake bends down, removes the 
      coat from its bag, the fur almost rippling in his hands.

      Jake quickly stands, coat held out before him like an 
        offering to an ancient goddess:

                                        JAKE (CONT'D)
                              (into the peephole)
                      Tell me you don t want to take a closer 
                      look at this coat, Shanna.

      Jake waits for what seems like an eternity in the silence 
      of the hallway --

        Hears the CHAIN LOCK slide back from the other side of 
        the door, the HEAVY BOLT LOCK opening --

        Smiles as the door swings open to revealing Shanna, as 
        beautiful as ever in a skimpy robe -- completely and 
        totally mesmerized by the sight of the coat:




                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  47.

        CONTINUED:4949


                                        SHANNA
                      You re right, Jake: it s... it s 
                      beautiful.  Can I...?

        But as she reaches for the coat, Jake yanks it out of her 
        reach and slips past her into the loft:

                                        JAKE
                      Try it on inside -- the light s better.

        Shanna follows Jake inside, closes the door behind her.



      Jake takes a look around Shanna s loft -- never in his 
        wildest dreams did he think he d be granted access to her 
        private domain -- eyes the back bedroom, then turns to 
      face Shanna as she approaches:

      Jake slips the coat on her -- and she s instantly hooked:

        Watches as she pirouettes before her floor-to-ceiling 
        mirrors, a modern-day Narcissus, completely and totally 
        enchanted by her own reflection draped inside the coat.

        She suddenly stops, turns to Jake, eyes ravenous:

                                        SHANNA
                      Fuck wearing the coat in some show.
                                (beat)
                      I just wanna have it.

        But always the shrewd businessman, Jake s demeanor 
        suddenly dims as he realizes he has the upper hand.

      He smiles.  Like an alligator.

                                        JAKE
                      And there s a good chance I might give 
                      it to you.

                                        SHANNA
                       Good chance? 

                                        JAKE
                      We re already out to a couple other 
                      models -- we have to give them a chance 
                      to audition.

        Shanna pulls the fur coat more tightly around her.  She 
        begins to get agitated as if the fur is transmitting some 
          vibrations... good..? or bad..?

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  48.

        CONTINUED:5050


                                        SHANNA
                      I don t want anyone wearing this coat 
                      but me -- !

        But now it s Jake s turn to use one of Shanna s favorite 
        lines:

                                        JAKE
                      We ll see...

        But Shanna isn t going to argue about this anymore -- she 
        knows exactly how to get what she wants:

        She pulls open the coat and lowers her shorts, revealing 
        her naked backside --

                                        SHANNA
                      Believe me, baby --

        Shoves her rear out enticingly for Jake, inviting -- 
        begging -- him to take her from behind, her back arched 
      in anticipation of Jake s penetration:

                                        SHANNA (CONT D)
                      This is the only audition you ll need.

        Consumed by the overwhelming spectacle of his life s 
        obsession manifesting before his eyes, Jake rabidly 
        unbuckles his belt --

      Rips open his pants, pulls down his underpants --

        Rushes Shanna as she smiles at him over her shoulder --

        Pushes into her rear --

        Takes her from behind --

        Fucks her hard with reckless abandon --

        And after several moments:

        Shanna s face begins to contort in extreme pain --

      Be it the fact that she s a lesbian, and has likely never 
      done this before, or because Jake s penis is throbbing 
        and thick and raging for her, she begins to scream in 
        agony:

                                        SHANNA
                      Stop!  It s too goddamn big.

        But Jake cannot stop himself:

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  49.

        CONTINUED:5050


        His life s greatest fantasy -- the act he has dreamed 
        about since before he can remember; his obsession for 
        Shanna blotting out all other desires his life might have 
        produced -- finally coming to fruition in this single 
        psychosexual act:

      He thrusts away...

        Shanna roaring in pain...

        Gripping onto the iron bed frame for support...

        Her thighs flexed...

        Her rear end slamming back into Jake s groin --

        And the only thing that gets her through is:

        The soft feel of the pelts of the fur coat that is 
        bunched around her midsection -- Shanna focusing all her 
        attention on the coat:

        Shanna begins moaning -- pain suddenly mingled with 
        pleasure because of her focus on the coat...

      Jake grits his teeth -- monstrous -- as he nears the 
        culmination of what will likely be his life s greatest 
        single moment of physical pleasure...

        The soft curve of Shanna s perfect backside is a fleshy 
        pillow for Jake s violent repeated thrusting...

      He rubs, with great voluptuousness, the fur coat covering 
        Shanna s backside.  Jake s intense pleasure increases 
        gradually and very noticeably with each time he caresses 
        the fur.  

      Jake now literally stabbing at his obsession with his 
        erection...

        Finally climaxes --

        Roaring with ecstasy --

        His entire body quivering against the soft canvas of the 
        masterpiece that is Shanna s body --

        Crumbles on top of Shanna --

        The fur coat still wrapped around her torso as he pulls 
        out of her --

      Then holds her tightly.

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  50.

        CONTINUED:5050


        Shanna stifles her tears, her gaze still focused on the 
        beautiful pelts of the fur coat she is wearing -- and the 
      look on her face suddenly says it all:  It was worth it. 

      Jake caresses Shanna s shoulders, rubbing softly against 
        the pelts of fur --

        Suddenly pulls his hands away --

        The familiar look of dazed euphoria -- like the one we 
        saw on Larry, on Sergio, on Sue-Chin Yao -- washes over 
        Jake s face.

      He suddenly seems blissfully dazed, wonders:

                                        JAKE
                      Where s your bathroom...?

        Shanna points down a long hallway:

                                        SHANNA
                      Down there -- how come?

                                        JAKE
                      I need to find something sharp.

                                        SHANNA
                      What -- ?

      Jake stifles his laughter, grins enigmatically at some 
        private joke, then:

                                        JAKE
                      I said I need to freshen up.

        Shanna eyes Jake suspiciously --  whatever  -- as he 
        walks down the hallway to the bathroom, he stops in the 
        kitchen  and sizes up a set of extremely sharp Japanese 
        knives --

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



      Jake enters the kitchen.

        The blades that capture his attention are brilliantly 
          scintillating in the light.

        Jake s face is filled with extreme joy.

      He walks over, selects one and exits to --                                                                       "Pelts"  51.





      Jake stares at his reflection in bewilderment.  He is in 
        a euphoric state.

      He smiles at the knife.



        Shanna removes her shorts and T-shirt.

        She wraps her naked body in the fur coat and feels a 
        mysterious heat pervading her body.  

        She puts on extremely tall high heels.

        She can t stop caressing the fur against her body. It 
        seems to invade her.

        Shanna admires her reflection in the mirror, takes a deep 
        breath, consoles herself:

                                        SHANNA
                              (to her own reflection)
                      You ve done a lot worse for a lot less.

        And having thusly appeased what passes for her 
        conscience, Shanna steps toward the bed, still eyeing her 
        reflection:



      Jake stands shirtless before the mirror.

      He grips the knife with an alarming intensity --

        Suddenly pushes the blade through the skin at the top of 
        his breast bone --

        Piercing through to the fatty layer beneath.

      He then pulls the blade straight down the length of his 
        sternum --

        Blood running freely from the wound --

      Upon reaching the top of his abdomen --

      Jake angles the knife to the right:


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  52.

        CONTINUED:5454


        Carves along the line of his bottom rib down to his 
        flank, then:

        Begins extending the cut around his waist to his back.

        And all the while, Jake remains perfectly stoic -- 
        somehow immune to the ungodly pain -- as he continues to 
        slice into his own flesh:

      Jake extends the cut all the way to his spine, then:

        Switches the gore-dappled blade to his left hand:

        Makes a matching cut down the left side of his torso --

        Meets the first incision at the base of his spine.

        Blood now gushing like rivers down his waist and legs as:

      Jake makes a circular cut around each shoulder, cutting 
      over the top and through the armpit --

        Carves a final circular cut around the entirety of his 
        neck, then:

        Stands back, finally finished, admires:

        The bloody outline of a vest he has carved into the flesh 
      of his sternum.

      Jake sets the gooey knife down, stares at himself in the 
        mirror a moment longer, seems pleased with his handiwork.

      Jake then grips the edges of the incision he made over 
        his breast bone -- takes a long moment to gather his 
        will, our horror only mounting during the break in the 
        grisly proceedings -- then:

        Yanks down with all of his might.

      Face locked in the throes of intense pain, Jake finally 
      lets out a squeal, as:

        Amidst sprays of blood --

        His skin begins to pull free from the underlying tissue.

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:                                                                       "Pelts"  53.





        Shanna lies on the bed -- still trying to arrange the 
          uncooperative coat -- when she hears Jake s footsteps 
        shuffling toward her down the hallway:

                                        SHANNA
                      Jake -- is everything... -- ?

        But she suddenly trails-off -- completely and totally 
        horrified -- as Jake shuffles into the bedroom:

      He is covered in blood.

        His pants are wet with red.

        His chest and abdomen are soaked with gore.

      It appears as if somebody ripped the hide from his torso.

                                        SHANNA (CONT D)
                      Your -- your skin... -- it s... gone!

        Jake s eyes are wide and glazed as he continues toward 
        her -- his voice a dried-out croak:

                                        JAKE
                      I made it for you.  My work of art.

        Whereupon he holds his arms out to Shanna -- and she 
        SCREAMS AT THE TOP OF HER LUNGS:

        REVEAL: Jake is offering Shanna the pasty white, blood-
        streaked, SKIN VEST he made from his own flesh:

      It is a morbid work of art:

        Its wiry chest hairs straggle across the front of the 
        sagging flesh and whirl around its nipples.

      BACK TO SCENE: as Jake continues lumbering toward Shanna, 
        holding out his bloody offering:

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                      I made it to impress you.

        But Shanna bolts from the bed, lowers her shoulder into 
      Jake -- knocking him back -- as she races from the loft.                                                                       "Pelts"  54.





        Shanna runs screaming down the empty hallway, the fur 
      coat flails around her --

        Races toward the old freight elevator --

          A nerve-wracking scene of suspense as Jake pursues her:

      We follow Shanna as she runs down the hallway screaming.

        She trips over her heels and falls to the ground.  

        She remains dazed for a moment.  

        She notices Jake coming toward her -- 

      He walks like a zombie.

      In one motion she throws off her heels, stands and runs.

        Shanna gains distance, reaches the elevator --

        She opens the gate...



        Shanna runs inside and closes the gate.

        She looks and sees that Jake is quickly approaching.

        She flips the lever and the large steel doors close.

        Frantic, and still screaming she pushes the down button.

        The elevator begins its descent.

      It is a moment of relief for Shanna.  She sees freedom 
        approaching.

        The elevator keeps moving.

        The elevator is about to reach the ground floor and she 
        looks up with a sigh of relief.

        She raises her eyes to see Jake on third floor struggling 
      to open the gate.

        She flips the lever.



                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  55.

        CONTINUED:5757


      From below, we see that Jake has successfully opened the 
        gate.

        The doors to her escape start to open slowly.

                                        JAKE
                                (screaming)
                      Shanna!  Shanna!

        While the elevator doors are slowly opening, Jake 
        unexpectedly throws himself down the elevator shaft.

      He hits his head on the structural beam of the elevator, 
        bounces from it and continues his plummet into the 
        elevator itself.

      He hits the floor with his skull cracked open and legs 
        broken.

        Horrified, Shanna moves to exit through the small opening 
      that the doors have made.

      Jake is still alive and strong.  He reaches out and grabs 
        Shanna s ankle.

        Falling, she inadvertently flips the lever.

        The steel doors start to close like a slow guillotine.

        Shanna is horrified, outside of herself.

      Free of Jake s grip, Shanna manages to get back onto her 
      feet and while trying to slip through the space between 
        the steel doors Jake grabs her ankle again.

        She kicks his face mangled face and SCREAMS AS LOUD AS 
        SHE CAN.

        The doors are closing, dangerously close to locking her 
      in with this monster.

      With a desperate force she manages to free herself and 
        throw herself forward, latching onto the door with both 
        hands.

        She holds with all her strength, but Jake has her by the 
        thighs and is pulling her toward him.  It is a tug-of-
      war.

        The doors are about to close.

        CLOSE ON: Shanna s terrorized face.


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  56.

        CONTINUED:5757


        The doors close on her wrist and continue to press.

        Blood starts spritzing from her wrist.

      Jake continues to pull her toward him.

        Her terror increases.  She s outside herself.

      He has her by her hips.  

      He is vomiting blood.

        Shanna struggles to no avail.  She SCREAMS, she 
        struggles, but the more she struggles the more her wrists 
        tear.

        CLOSE ON: Jake s crazy eyes.

        Fully possessed by the coat, Shanna lets out a primal 
        scream and starts gnawing at her wrist.

        DETAIL INSERT SHOTS: ripping, and spitting morsels of her 
        own flesh, cartilage and skin.

        The door closes and Shanna pulls back her stubby forearm.  
        Her wrist is cut.  It is a fountain of blood.

        She SCREAMS.

                                                                    FADE TO BLACK.


5858OVER THE DARKNESS: 

        the HUSTLE AND BUSTLE of a group of people fades up, the 
        sound of shuffling feet, voices in hushed conversation, 
      then --

                                        GRUFF MALE VOICE (O.S.)
                      Jesus fuckin  Christ -- I gotta puke -- 
                      !

        And as we listen to THAT PERSON GETTING SICK --

        A FLASHPOP rips us out from the darkness to REVEAL:



        Shanna and Jake s corpses lie on the floor of the freight 
        elevator, the busy criminal investigation under way as we 
        return to the grisly scene where our film began.


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  57.

        CONTINUED:5959


      As the Gruff Officer continues puking in the corner of 
        the warehouse lobby --

        FLASHPOPS of the CRIME SCENE PHOTOGRAPHS illuminate the 
        scene in rapid GRISLY SNIPPETS:

        Jake's flayed corpse.

        Bloody tendons.  Muscles.  Ligaments -- all void of skin. 

        His eyeballs bulging from his ravaged skull.

      Like the eyes of a monster.  A human monster.

      Long and lingering looks at Shanna s stark naked body.

      Once perfect and the object of our desires, now 
          exsanguinated and mutilated.

        Destroyed by the very obsession that worshiped it.

        Caked head-to-toe with blood.

        And now we focus on that one wrist:

        A bloody stump of flesh, bone and tendons.

        A FLASHPOP illuminates her gnawed-off hand, now on the 
        floor.

      BACK TO SCENE: as a BESPECTACLED OFFICER turns to THE 
        CRIME SCENE PHOTOGRAPHER, shakes his head and laughs in 
        stunned amazement, nodding toward the gnawed-off hands --

                                        BESPECTACLED OFFICER
                      You gotta really want to get free to 
                      chew your own hand off -- !

        CRIME SCENE PHOTOGRAPHER nods in bemused agreement, moves 
      on to take more photos, as everyone continues their 
        investigations into the grizzly double-homicide...

        Lou makes his way through the crowd of police officers.  
      He looks devastated.

      An AGENT stops him.

                                        AGENT
                      What do you want?  You can t come in 
                      here.




                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  58.

        CONTINUED:5959


                                        LOU
                                (indicating Jake on the 
                                floor)
                      He was my friend.  What happened?

                                        AGENT
                      To tell you the truth, we don t even 
                      know.

        Lou continues to look on the horrific scene.

                                        LOU
                      All this blood for a fur coat, a 
                      stinkin  fur coat.

                                                                            FADE OUT.