
Kopus calmly moves up the creaking stairs, the now bloodied 
spiked 2x4 over his shoulder, casual as can be...



Kopus peers inside a bathroom, the shower is stacked high 
with blackened meth making equipment; beakers and jugs.  



Kopus kicks open the door -- a Ramapo man named MIKE PARKER 
(40 s) in bed with a LARGE RAMAPO GIRL (18).  The girl takes 
one look at Kopus, jumps naked out of bed and runs past him 
out the door... 

 skinny, kind of sickly Mike sits up, scared shitless...he s
looking -- 

MIKE
Kopus?

 s about to take Mike s answer, looks like he Kopus doesn t
head off with the spiked 2x4, Mike about to shit himself...

KOPUS
Where is he? 

s so scared -- answer, freezing up he Mike doesn t

KOPUS (CONT D)
Where is he I said?

MIKE
 I sunk him in the lake.  No one s
gonna find him.  They ain t looking 
over there. 

KOPUS
Can they trace him back to you?

MIKE
 never been here before.  No, he d
He didn t even know my name.  

Mike s POV as Kopus considers that...THEN SUDDENLY SWINGS THE 
2X4 AT MIKE -- Mike closes his eyes -- hears a THUNK...opens 
his eyes back up to see Kopus sunk the spikes into the wall -- 
the 2x4 hanging there, Kopus chuckling, shaking his head.  6.


MIKE (CONT D)
Jesus Christ -- 

Kopus looks Mike over -- grabs his head -- forces his mouth 
open, looks at his blackened teeth -- 

KOPUS
Looks like you been getting on the 
burns, buddy.

Kopus tosses Mike to the floor --

KOPUS (CONT D)
 gonna be making meth no You ain t
 gonna be something more -- it s
else -- something better.  
(beat)
Cops been here?

MIKE
No.  

KOPUS
You kill him in the house? 

MIKE
It was an accident, I --

KOPUS
 care what it was.  You do I don t
it here in the house?

Mike nods.

KOPUS (CONT D)
Go to the store and buy some bleach 
-- you gotta scrub this place down.  
My Dad sent me.  Gonna be staying 
here awhile -- whip this sad 
operation into shape.  

Mike nods.  Kopus helps him up, gives him a funny smile -- 
their old dynamic quickly reestablished; Kopus leads, Mike s 
happy to follow.


END OF TEASER7.


ACT ONE



Close on a woman s willowy hands as they attach security tags 
to returned clothes.  The piped-in store music goes silent... 

Angle widens to reveal JEAN JENSEN.  Jean has this severe 
beauty; impossibly perfect posture.  She moves through the 
just closed store, hears the TV going inside the breakroom... 



Jean s POV -- two employees watching the TV as they get their 
coats on to leave; a Ramapo girl named EVELINE (18) and 
 the same age as Jean...SHIRLEY, a stout women, who s

NEWS ANCHOREVELINE
--search for Denis Bradley, How d he get lost?  My baby 
the NYU freshman who was brother can figure out those 
reported missing six days trails --
ago.  New York cab driver, 
Pedro Melendez, came forward 
this morning, claiming he 
drove Bradley to a stretch of 
road in the Ramapo mountains, 
where local police -- 

Eveline and Shirley notice Jean standing there -- she looks 
stricken by the images of police searching the mountains...  
Jean notices them looking at her, snaps back to herself, gets 
her coat -- 

JEAN JENSEN
 gonna need you to do Shirley, I m
inventory tomorrow, OK?    

Shirley nods.  Jean exits, looking upset.  Eveline gives 
Shirley a what s with her look.  



Jean on the phone, driving -- 

JEAN JENSEN
I saw the news.    

HAROLD
I was waiting until I got home to 
tell you.  You OK? 

JEAN JENSEN
Yes, I just -- are we sure Rachel 
 going up there anymore?          isn t



Harold gets in his truck -- 

HAROLD
Yes.  And even if she is -- there s 
nothing dangerous going on -- just 
a kid lost in the woods.  I love 
you.  Don t watch the news -- 

Harold hangs up, then stares out the windshield into the 
wooded black, looks like speaking with Jean has made him 
anxious about something...  He starts the truck up --



 bedroom (who Harold walks past his two teenage daughters 
we ll meet in a bit), hears Jean inside taking to them.  He s 
about to walk into the bathroom when his eyes land on 
something...he pauses, looking at...

Framed photos on the wall, Jean as a teenager with her twin 
 wearing a Suffern High Track jacket.  brother BRIAN who s
Harold stares at the photo, something eating at him...

Brian seems to be smiling at him from out of the picture...9.



Harold takes his filthy shirt off -- starts washing his hands 
in the sink -- has an ugly looking, ten inch, surgery scar on 
his upper back.  Wears a little Saint Christopher medal 
around his neck -- its surface appears to have been purposely 
defaced with deep scratch marks...



Harold hangs his gun belt on the door knob.  He sits down on 
the guest bed, getting his boots off, mind churning -- a 
little painting hanging across the room -- a forest path and 
an overgrown fence.  There s a recliner, a little tv -- looks 
 spending a lot of time in here. lived in -- he s

Jean appears in the doorway, she looks upset.  

Harold sits her down on the guest bed -- sits down next to 
her.  She wraps her arms around him, nuzzles her head against 
his shoulder...  

HAROLD
You thinking about your brother?

Beat.

JEAN JENSEN
Yeah.

Harold stares off, looks like he s trying to dampen down his 
emotions -- some guilt in his eyes...  

HAROLD
You want me to sleep in our room 
tonight?  

JEAN JENSEN
Can I sleep in here?  

He looks at her, nods.  Radiates this palpable affection for 
her.  She wraps her arms around him, starts kissing him.  He 
looks surprised, but happy.  She pauses, looking at the 
defaced Saint Christopher medal hanging around his neck.  She 
rubs it between her fingers when --  

He starts tenderly kissing her.  They fall back on the guest 
bed, undressing each other...faces close, eyes locked...  10.



 bleary POV as he opens his eyes, waking up -- the Harold s
little painting across the room...  

 already gone...  Harold smiles -- turns over.  Sees Jean s
His smile fades.  



Harold looking in the mirror, buttoning up his police uniform 
-- hears Jean coming up the stairs.  She appears in the open 
doorway, holding something...

 holding an unopened condom.Harold turns and looks.  She s

JEAN JENSEN
 jeans.    I found this in Rachel s



Rachel sitting in the back, watches as Jean walks out of the 
house, Harold right behind her.  Rachel shakes her head as 
Harold walks up to the window, motions for her to roll it 
  He opens the door --down -- she doesn t.

HAROLD
I find out you re still seeing that 
 gonna have a Indian kid, we re
problem -- you got me?  You and me 
are gonna talk later.  Hey -- you 
hear me?

Rachel doesn t look at him, nodding dismissively.  Kate sits 
quiet up front in the passenger seat -- looks over as Jean 
gets behind the wheel -- this horrible strain on her face...  11.



Marie starts the car up, watching Kopus, who s still talking 
to Junior.   She looks uneasy, puts it in gear and starts 
backing out --



A mad cacophony of voices echo in the cafeteria -- Rachel 
pays for her tray of cafeteria food, then starts navigating 
between tables, nudging past clusters of cackling kids.  

She comes up on a table of well dressed girls and milk-fed 
boys, regarding her quickly then turning away -- she s being 
blackballed.  A FOOTBALL PLAYER at the table looks up as she 
walks past, his face is bruised yellow, eye is black -- 
 former best friend LAURA is all over him.Rachel s

Rachel spots a table of Ramapo kids, they re joking with one 
another -- laughing -- one of them is telling a story.  
Rachel sits at the table, smiling at them -- the story teller 
stops talking, they all look at Rachel...  

RAMAPO GIRL
Can we help you with something?

RACHEL
Just want to eat my lunch.

RAMAPO GIRL
s banging  Junior You think  cause
you you get a free membership in 
 a poser -- go the tribe?  You re
sit with the bitches.  

Rachel gets up, mortified, throws her food away, tries to 
 leave the cafeteria -- a teacher, MR. ARMSTRONG (50 s)
intercepts her -- 

MR. ARMSTRONG
You going somewhere, Miss Jensen?  

Rachel gives him a hateful smile, then turns, finds a 
miscellaneous table and sits.  She keeps her head down, gets 
her phone out and starts texting Junior: 

Hate this place!! Save me!!



Two beds, remnants of girl-hood mixed with edgier fare.  The 
sound of footsteps patting down the hallway, Jean appears in 
the doorway...  She surveys the room, seems agitated...she 
 stuff --walks inside and starts rifling through Rachel s



A big warehouse, football field size, one big room, Junior 
and Rachel sitting in the middle of it smoking a joint. 

RACHEL
I liked it better when my mother 
was drinking.  At least I could do 
 what I wanted.  Now that she s
cureds like obsessed with me.   she 17.


Rachel stands up, starts walking, Junior catches up to her --

RACHEL (CONT D)
You ever worry about turning into 
your parents?

JUNIOR
t know it  -- so wouldn Never met em
if I did.  

Rachel stops, turns to Junior -- manic affection suddenly 
shining in her eyes.  She kisses him...then:

RACHEL
My Dad once carried my mother all 
the way home from Suffern High.  

Junior considers that, smiling wryly.

JUNIOR
Why?

RACHEL
cause  know --  Shut up -- I don t
it s romantic.  You think you could 
carry me that far? 

Junior starts repeatedly trying to lift Rachel -- pretending 
 too heavy -- as she laughs hysterically.  Then he she s
whisks her up, starts running around with her in his arms -- 
until they fall in a heap, laughing -- making out --



Marie sits down at the table, sets a plate down, she s made a 
 now sitting at her table, looking sandwich for Paige, who s
 so much stuff on the around the kitchen...there s
refrigerator, so many magnets, photos, colored paper -- 
 life has many players --Marie s

MARIE
 take people in as much Now I don t
 just me and these days -- it s
Junior.  This is only until Billy 
can get you out of there.  You can 
help me out with this EPA thing.  
 Junior was helping me -- but he s
in love now, so...

PAIGE
s gonna want to  think Billy I don t
stay here.  18.


MARIE
 gonna have to kiss my ass.Billy s

Marie switches on the TV --

MARIE (CONT D)
 on yet --See if my brother s

The TV as Marie switches from a daytime talk show to C-SPAN: 
a large Ramapo man -- MAC (50s) -- testifying before a 
congressional committee.  He has an air of self importance --  

MARIE (CONT D)
He s not the best Chief we ever had 
 good on TV. -- but he s

Paige watches Mac gesticulating dramatically on TV -- 

PAIGE
em to  ever get He is.  Think he ll
recognize the tribe?

MARIE
 got no cure for the past, Future s
 how I see it.honey.  Least that s

Marie grabs a bottle of Advil, dumps three pills in her hand, 
washes them down with some Mountain Dew.  She sets down a 
sandwich for herself...picks it up...then sets it down, 
breathing out, looks a little sick.

PAIGE
You OK?

Marie nods.  The phone rings.  Marie gets up, picks up the 
phone --

MARIE
Hello.

Nothing.  Marie huffs a little --

MARIE (CONT D)
Hello I said --

JEAN JENSEN
Tell your son or whatever he is, to 
leave my daughter alone -- do you 
hear me?  

 Marie is shocked, knocked off guard by the force of Jean s
voice --19.



 dumped out Jean sits on the floor on the phone, she s
s  desk drawer, holds a school notebook with Junior Rachel s
home phone number scrawled on the back -- 

JEAN JENSEN
You understand that?  Do you need 
 going me to put it simpler -- he s
to be in trouble.  My husband is a 
police officer and will not --

MARIE
t know who you  sorry, I don I m
 --are, or what you re

JEAN JENSEN
Don t talk -- don t you talk --

Jean hangs up the phone, taking deep breaths, trying to calm 
 stuff back in the drawer --  herself as she shoves Rachel s

She hears a sound outside -- freezes.  A distant yelling.  
 see anyone out there.  She She goes to the window.  Doesn t
turns, breathes out, lingering on something across the way...

Her reflection in mirrored surface letters adorning the wall: 
R A C H E L 



Harold closes the door -- hangs his gun belt on the door 
knob.  He sits down on the guest bed, grabs the remote and 
turns on the Jets game -- getting his boots off when there s 
a knock at his door...

HAROLD
Who s got some manners out there -- 
t be Jean -- be Rachel, can can t

 Kate with an open lap top in hand.  The door opens, it s

KATE
Dad, can I come in?

HAROLD
 have to ask me.Yeah.  You don t20.


She looks around curiously --

KATE
You busy, want me to come back 
later?

HAROLD
t have  your father -- you don I m
to be so courteous, making me 
crazy.

She smiles excitedly, squats by his recliner, shows him the 
laptop screen.  A Facebook page for HAROLD JENSEN.  

HAROLD (CONT D)
 need one of these, do I?I don t

KATE
Yes, Dad -- you do.

The picture shows a fresh faced 17 year old football player, 
 high school senior picture. Harold s

HAROLD
This is kind of an old picture, 
sweetie.

KATE
You looked really cool back then.  

He looks at the picture, seems to agree with her assessment. 
There was a palpable drive in his eyes back then, an 
assuredness now somewhat absent.  Kate looks around...

KATE (CONT D)
 been in here for, like, You ve
three weeks.  Is this your room 
now?  Mom said it s still the guest 
room.  

HAROLD
 the guest room.  We It is -- it s
explained this to you; your mother 
was having trouble sleeping with me 
 be back in there in there -- I ll
soon.   

KATE
 not getting divorced?You re

HAROLD
 never gonna happen.  No.  That s21.


Kate smiles at that -- looks over at the football game -- 
someone just scored a touchdown --

KATE
Why do you watch this?

HAROLD
I like it.

KATE
Even though it broke your back?

HAROLD
 it broke my back.Especially  cause

KATE
Which do you like better, football 
or being a cop?  

HAROLD
I like protecting people.  Used to 
protect the QB -- now I protect 
innocent people.  

KATE
Who protects you?  

HAROLD
Saint Christopher. 

KATE
 not even a real saint.    He s

HAROLD
Well who is, sweetie?

Harold gives Kate a smile.  Something occurs to him...

HAROLD (CONT D)
Your sister home yet?

Kate shrugs, looks at the TV nonchalantly...  



Kopus drives the New Jersey turnpike, heading for NYC... 



Kopus is shown inside by FAYINA, (36), his father s longtime 
Russian girlfriend.  She regards Kopus wearily.  

FAYINA
 upstairs.  He s

Kopus nods, annoyed beyond words...

KOPUS
 come down here?He can t



Kopus walks past a closed door.  He stops.  Seems reminded of 
something, some past with this door and the room behind it...  
He opens the door...

A dog crate, a pit bull lying inside -- it appears it lost 
both its eyes in a fight.  This breathing mass of muscle...

Kopus crouches next to it, looks in at the dog...  JACK 
s buttoning a  -- he KOPUS, appears in the doorway (60 s)
 eyes -- looks a black shirt over his gut, has his son s
little strung out.  

KOPUS
 put it down?  How come you didn t
How many dogs have you murdered, 
 the one you decide to spare can t
see.  

JACK KOPUS
That s not my dog.  Holding him for 
somebody.  Come on out of here -- 
 have the run of my house.  you don t



Jack walks in, sits on the edge of the bed.  The place has a 
messy, sour look.  Kopus stands in the middle of the room.  
 some faded Indian prints from the 70s hanging. There s

JACK KOPUS
Close the door.

Kopus closes the door. 

KOPUS
Mike sunk the body in the lake.  
They ain t looking over there.23.


Kopus removes some money wrapped in a brown paper bag, throws 
it on the bed --

KOPUS (CONT D)
s made  like you said -- he It s
 all he had.shit -- that s

JACK KOPUS
 gonna turn it around.You re

KOPUS
I told you I would.  

JACK KOPUS
What about Mike?

Kopus looks back at his father...

KOPUS
 not killing Mike.   I m

JACK KOPUS
Funny.  The way your mind jumps 
right to killing.  
(beat)
I meant keep him in line.  

KOPUS
m doing.  Soon as the  what I That s
cops give up looking for that kid -- 
 gonna have you back in I m
business.    
(beat)
Jesus, that God damn cologne -- 
 not supposed to put so much you re
 nobody tell you that?on.  Didn t

JACK KOPUS
You could be a little more 
gracious.  Remember last time they 
was looking for somebody in those 
woods?  And the whole village of 
Suffern was ready to string you the 
hell up?  Who helped you out?  And 
now here I am again -- giving you a 
way to make some money when the 
rest of the world is trying to 
flush your ex-con ass down the 
toilet?  You should be kissing my 
 like my cologne, feet.  You don t
too damn bad.  You gonna suck on my 
 gonna smell my cologne.tit, you re

Kopus goes to exit --24.


JACK KOPUS (CONT D)
 say nothing about the I didn t
amount -- but you try passing off a 
 find wad that light again I ll
somebody else.  Son or no son.  
Let Saint Marie do something for 
you.  

Kopus bristles, but doesn t reply, walks out just as fast as 
he can --



Harold in the recliner, sleeping, the little TV on per usual  
-- a sound wakes him up.  Screaming elsewhere in the house, 
the sound of breaking glass.  He leaps up -- 



Harold rushes down the stairs, the screaming now clearly Jean 
fighting with Rachel --



 broken glass Harold rushes into the room -- sees there s
everywhere, a lamp was toppled.  Rachel stands there, still 
has her coat on -- Jean standing across from her, both of 
them in a state.  

HAROLD
The hell is going on?

Rachel races past him, Jean goes after her...  

HAROLD (CONT D)
Hey, God damn it --

Harold starts to follow, steps on something, looks down -- 
winces -- pulls a little piece of glass from his bare foot...    



Harold walks down the hall, it s quiet now.  He sees the door 
 room is open, hears Jean inside talking to to the girl s
Rachel...  25.



Harold appears in the open doorway.  He sees Rachel sitting 
on her bed, her head down, Jean standing over her, going 
quiet as Harold moves inside --

HAROLD
 going on?  What s

Jean looks over at Harold, a fragile calm in her eyes...

JEAN JENSEN
Go back to bed.

He pauses for a moment, looks at Rachel.  She doesn t look at 
him, staring at the floor.  Across the room, Kate pretending 
 arm.  to be asleep, listening.  Harold puts his hand on Jean s

HAROLD
 we talk to her in the Why don t
morning?

JEAN JENSEN
s OK,  talking to her now.  It I m
 handling it.    Harold.  I m

 not sure, looking at her.  He s

JEAN JENSEN (CONT D)
 OK.It s

After a moment Harold nods, turns and walks...



The broken lamp -- angle widens as Harold walks in looking a 
little disturbed.  After a moment he starts picking up the 
pieces...



Kate, pretending to be asleep, face turned to the wall -- 
upset as she listens to her mother talk to Rachel --

JEAN JENSEN 
I want you to listen to me -- you 
need to understand something.  
 awake -- you Kate, I know you re
need to hear this too...  
(beat)
There was a boy I used to know who 
lived up there.  
(MORE)26.

JEAN JENSEN  (CONT'D)
He got my brother messed up on 
drugs...  Then made him go swimming 
in the lake.  Watched him drown...  
(beat)
I want you to think about that...

Jean walks out.  Kate sits up, sees Rachel is crying.  Kate 
gets out of bed, closes the door and goes to her...



 clothing -- sees Harold weaves between the racks of woman s
Shirley folding clothes --

SHIRLEY
Hey, Harold.  She left.   

Then, with a vague hint of accusation in her eyes:

SHIRLEY (CONT D)
Found her crying in one of the 
dressing rooms...  

Harold starts to say something, then doesn t -- breathes out.

HAROLD
Shirley, did she uh -- did you 
notice --

SHIRLEY
 smell any alcohol on her -- I didn t
 seem like she was drunk.  didn t
 know -- She was -- I don t
 call you?confused...  She didn t29.


Harold shakes his head -- at a loss as he turns and walks --



Rachel with Junior.  The mine itself has mostly caved in -- 
it s just a cave now.  Kopus lights his lighter, illuminating 
the dank walls, trash and chunks of paint sludge everywhere.

 Kopus grabs Mike and walks him out of Rachel and Junior s
earshot.  

KOPUS
This is gonna be our storage 
warehouse.      

Mike nods.  

KOPUS (CONT D)
Could you get back here without me?

 answer...looks a little uncomfortable, finally Mike doesn t
manages:

MIKE
 pay attention on the way out.I ll

Kopus looks Mike in the eye, fixes him with this meditative 
stare, whispers to him...

KOPUS
Pay attention, Mike.  I got a 
future worked out -- you can t make 
problems.  I want you to live.  30.


 shocked expression to Rachel and Kopus turns from Mike s
Junior.  He walks over to them, presents to them the cave --

KOPUS (CONT D)
I used to come here when I was in 
high school.  This was like my 
place.  Had parties here.  

He holds the lighter aloft, looking up at the upper half of 
the cave wall -- he reaches up and grabs something stashed in 
a hole dug into the wall, takes him a moment to dislodge 
it...Rachel watching him -- he catches her looking at him, 
smiles -- finally pulls down this old filthy garbage bag --

Kopus reaches into the bag and pulls out a bottle of vodka -- 
the label has been scratched off, he throws it to Junior --

KOPUS (CONT D)
Merry Christmas.  

Junior catches it, gives Kopus a nod of thanks.  Kopus 
reaches back in the bag, smiles, dragging it out, relishing 
 face...pulls out a pistol.  the look on Rachel s

Rachel and Junior both freeze up as Kopus looks over at Mike, 
Mike s face drops as Kopus fires -- pop pop -- Rachel screams 
-- Mike is still standing there, holding his chest, but 
 no blood.  Kopus starts laughing --there s

KOPUS (CONT D)
 just an air gun.  It s

Kopus looks them over with theatrical incredulity --

KOPUS (CONT D)
 a killer.  You all must think I m
Think I d just turn, give it to old 
Mike right here.  

RACHEL
Can I try it?

Kopus ignores her, gives Mike a look.  Mike looks over at an 
old mattress on the sodden floor, Rachel catches this, turns 
to Junior --

RACHEL (CONT D)
OK -- I want to go.  

Junior follows as she starts for the exit -- Kopus lets the 
lighter go out and the mine entrance goes practically black --31.


We don t know what s happening -- Rachel screams -- Kopus and 
Mike laughing -- then after a moment Kopus lights the 
lighter.

Junior stands there horrified, adrenaline flooding, ready to 
fight -- Rachel looks stunned -- Kopus and Mike standing with 
their hands in the air -- 

KOPUS
Sorry, lighter crapped out --

Junior looks at Rachel --

RACHEL
Sorry, I just got scared --

Junior sees Kopus and Mike suppressing laughter now.  
They start out of the cave --

JUNIOR
 Cut the shit, I know what you re
 do it with me.doing -- don t

 mounting anger.  Kopus and Mike look highly amused by Junior s



Harold pulls into his driveway, puts it in park --



Laid out on a table with a myriad of random items recovered 
from the woods is a twenty year old backpack -- its contents 
bagged individually.  An unlabeled cassette tape, some little 
squares of tin foil and a Suffern High Track jacket with the 
name BRIAN stitched on the arm.  Angle widens to reveal 
Harold and Captain Warren staring down at it.  The Captain 
 thermos... sipping from his trusty Jersey Devil s

CAPTAIN WARREN
s brother s? Jean It s

Harold nods...

CAPTAIN WARREN (CONT D)
Couple detectives from the NYPD saw 
re old  they it already.  Told em
items -- nothing to do with the 
case.               33.


HAROLD
This is gonna upset Jean...

 eyes.The Captain clocks the stress in Harold s

CAPTAIN WARREN
Lot of eyes on us right now.  But 
before long -- you know as well as 
 gonna turn up on I do this boy s
spring break somewhere.  Don t need 
to figure this out now.  I got your 
back, kid.    

The Captain walks off.  Harold picks up the old cassette tape 
and looks at it...something about it looks to be racking his 
mind.... 

 take his eyes off it... He sets it down, frozen -- can t



 repairing the A ringing phone as Jean picks it up.  She s
lamp she broke...

JEAN JENSEN
Hello?
(listens)
Yes.

Jean takes a breath, looks a little thrown...

JEAN JENSEN (CONT D)
Rachel wasn t in school today?



Harold walks into the house, sees Jean sitting on the couch, 
gluing the broken lamp back together.

HAROLD
How you doing?    

She gives him a smile, it seems fake though...34.


JEAN JENSEN
 OK.         I m

HAROLD
 going to Rachel called me, she s
the movies with Laura.

She nods absently.  Goes back to work on the lamp...  

HAROLD (CONT D)
Fixed the lamp, huh.

 answer, applying glue with grim concentration...She doesn t

s silent,   She He starts to say something, then doesn t.
 not there.  After a moment he walks out...acting like he s



Harold walks up the stairs, leaves behind red footprints, has 
some of that paint sludge on the soles of his boots.      



Harold walks into his room, shuts the door quietly, exhales.  
He takes off his gun belt, hangs it on the door knob -- 
exhausted... 

DISSOLVE TO:


THE PAINTING ON HAROLD S WALL...THE FLASHING LIGHT OF THE TV.

Harold wakes up -- looking at that painting, he looks like he 
 just not feeling might have had a nightmare, or maybe he s
well, he gets up, on his way to the door when he notices 
something that jolts him --

His holster hanging on the door knob...  

 empty -- It shis gun is gone.



The empty room -- the sound of Harold rushing through the 
house -- 

HAROLD (O.S.)
Jean?  JEAN!?35.


Harold runs into the room, frenzied -- sees the tv is on but 
no one s watching it, its light strobing the couch, pictures 
on the wall -- he rushes to the window, looks out...

 SUV is gone from the driveway...  Jean s



Kate has headphones on, doing homework on her laptop -- the 
sound of Harold bounding up the stairs, he opens her door, 
out of breath.  She takes the headphones off -- jolted by his 
panicked expression --

HAROLD
Did your mother tell you where she 
was going?  

Kate shakes her head.

HAROLD (CONT D)
Is Rachel back from the movies?

KATE
The movies?

HAROLD
She said she was going to the 
movies with Laura.

Kate looks at her father, conflicted, then -- 

KATE
She s with Junior.  Probably at the 
old Ford plant.

Harold is coming apart at the seams --

HAROLD
And you don t know where your 
mother is?  

Kate shakes her head.  Harold dials JEAN.  Kate watches him 
pacing -- hears something coming from downstairs -- a sound --

KATE
Dad --

He shooes her away, listening intently to the ring tones -- 
 phone ringing downstairs --then he hears it too -- Jean s36.



 ringing phone sits on the couch.  Harold stares down Jean s
at it, dread in his eyes...  


END OF ACT THREE37.


ACT FOUR



Jean is driving up the main mountain road -- a semi-truck 
 staring out at the road with this blasts by her.  She s
strained, concentrated gaze...

She hits a bump -- Harold s pistol jumps a little --  it s
sitting there on the passenger seat...



Marie cuts a chicken on a cutting board, Paige is watching TV 
in the next room -- then SMASH -- outside -- an engine 
throttling, the SQUEALING OF METAL.  Marie rushes to the 
window, sees Jean just rear ended her car with her SUV --

MARIE
Jesus Christ, what the hell --

Paige comes running to the window --

PAIGE
What was that?!

They see Jean getting out of her SUV -- but the darkness and 
 coat obscure the gun in her hand.  Marie the cuff of Jean s
grabs her cell phone, dials...

MARIE
 in my driveway!  Mac -- someone s



Marie, still has Mac on the line -- Paige looks scared out of 
her mind.  Marie realizing who this person is...

MARIE
(into the phone)
s  mother -- I think it Rachel s
Jean Rogers.  Just get over here --
(MORE)40.

MARIE (CONT'D)
(yelling through door to 
Jean)
 not here!Rachel s

No answer.  Marie and Paige stand there frozen, listening to 
Jean muttering to herself on the other side, scratching the 
gun barrel against the door...  Then silence.

Marie goes to the window, sees Jean backing out of the 
driveway -- 



Someone is blasting heavy metal in the giant hanger-like 
portion of the factory.  Harold emerges from another room, 
sees five teenage Ramapo boys standing around a boom box, 
drinking beer -- they scramble to put their beers down --

HAROLD
 you run --  Don t

They run anyway -- split into two groups -- Harold runs after 
them, grabs one by the back of his shirt --

HAROLD (CONT D)
Stop -- 

Harold turns the kid around -- 

HAROLD (CONT D)
 looking for Rachel Jensen.  I m
She hangs out with Junior Van Der 
Veen -- you know him?

The boy shakes his head, mouth shut tight, eyes trying to get 
a read on this guy with the harried face, the stressed voice.  



Jean drives -- blasting over the chewed up road, bouncing in 
 in shock.  Angle widens -- the her seat -- looks like she s
 not there...passenger seat -- the gun s

She keeps taking turns, tree branches smacking her 
 on a straightaway now, getting darker -- windshield.  She s
ends up in a cul-de-sac --

JEAN JENSEN
No -- come on God damn it -- let me 
out, let me out --41.


She turns the SUV around, it gets stuck, she stomps on the 
gas until the wheels free and shoot her back into the road --

After a moment lights start coming up behind her.  She checks 
 weaving, trying to pass her --the rearview -- three ATV S

Jean freaks -- speeds up -- the scenery outside blurring into 
confusion, faster and faster.  She takes a hard turn to get 
 alone on the road now, accelerating --away from them, she s

A shape darts out in front of her, she doesn t react in time, 
THA-THUMP --

She stops the SUV.  Her eyes go wide, blasted with horror -- 
the engine starting to rev down, a quiet coming on as she 
turns slowly in her seat...peers back at the road... 

 something about twenty feet back, a black lump, too There s
dark to tell what it is.  

She considers, losing her breath...  Then she gently lays on 
the gas, starts driving away...


END OF ACT FOUR42.


ACT FIVE




 SUV in the Harold drives up to his house, sees Jean s
 standing there spraying down the grill with driveway, she s
the garden hose...



 POV as she walks slowly into the living room, sees Kate s
Harold sitting her mother down on the couch, trying to calm 
her down.  Harold notices Kate standing there --

KATE
She just sent me this --

Kate holds up her cell phone.  Harold grabs it from her -- 
sees the photograph Rachel just texted Kate -- the view of 
the Manhattan skyline: Jealous? 44.



Harold drives hard and fast -- taking the same winding forest 
road Jean did.  He sees lights ahead -- the scene of the hit 
and run -- ambulance is gone, a few Ramapos standing around 
by the side of the road, roadside flares still sparking --

Harold slows his truck, rolls down the window...

HAROLD
What happened?

 answer for a The Ramapos regard Harold suspiciously, don t
moment, then:

RAMAPO MAN
Kid got hit by a car.

 face goes hard, manages a nod, the man turns away, Harold s
Harold looks as if he could hyperventilate, starts driving, 
heading further up the mountain...



Harold, stopped on a forest road, leaning out, talking to a 
Ramapo man who s pointing up the way, begrudgingly giving him 
directions...



Harold gets Marie in the passenger side of the truck, slams 
the door.  She sits there, watches him walk around to the 
driver side while Paige screams at him -- he gets in -- 
starts backing out of the driveway -- 

MARIE
Just what in the hell do you think 
 arresting me for?you re

 answer, drives for a bit...then pulls over...Harold doesn t

Marie looks at him, he looks utterly lost, staring out the 
windshield...  Her expression softens a little, a sucker for 
the beaten down...

MARIE (CONT D)
Take these handcuffs off me, 
please.

Harold breathes out, after a moment he leans over and uncuffs 
Marie.  46.


MARIE (CONT D)
 one place we can look.  There s
t help  not there, I can If she s
you.  



The now empty vodka bottle on a crate.  Rachel lies passed 
out on the couch, Junior sitting on one side, Mike on the 
other, watching TV -- THEY HEAR SOMEONE BEATING ON THE DOOR --

MIKE
Shit --

THE SOUND OF THE DOOR BEING KICKED IN.  Mike springs up as 
Harold storms into the living room, sees Rachel -- looks like 
he s about to explode -- picks her up off the couch as Marie 
moves in behind him --

HAROLD
Don t you ever go near her again -- 
ll kill you, you  kill you.  I I ll
understand? 

Harold carries Rachel out -- noticing the garbage bags, the 
cleaning supplies --  



Kopus watches out the window as Harold carries Rachel to his 
t believe. becoming clear to him he can truck...something s



Rachel slumped over in the passenger seat, starting to wake 
up.  She looks over at her father, driving, utterly broken...

HAROLD
 do this to your mother You can t
anymore.

The way he says it stops her, she senses something is very 
wrong -- looks at him guiltily...

RACHEL
 mean to mess her up.I didn t

Harold shakes his head, guilt creasing his face...

HAROLD
 mess her up.You didn t47.



It s the middle of the night now.  Harold looks in -- Rachel 
is passed out on her bed, Kate sleeping.  Harold moves 
inside, pulls the covers over Rachel.  He walks from the 
room, down the hall.  He peers inside at Jean, lying in the 
 darkness, facing away from him -- hard to tell if she s
 just laying still...asleep or if she s



Harold walks into the garage, there s a hunting rifle on the 
wall, he grabs it down -- 


