
      ...we find ourselves in A DARKENED ROOM where a young woman 
      is drawing by the dim Earthlight thrown from the porthole.

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    This is reality...

      CLOSER NOW and we see the image on her pad: an impressively 
      rendered landscape.  A forest.  Majestic.

      CLARKE (17, smarter than she is pretty, but not by much)    
      is lost in the drawing.  For this moment, she is not space-
      locked.  She is in a forest.  And she s at peace.                                                                                         3


      Then the morning ALARM blasts over the PA.  Two short bursts.   
      With it, the lights come on and we re struck by how fair   
      she is.  Hers is indeed skin that s never seen the sun.  

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    Reality sucks.

      As she s jerked back into the cramped reality of what we now 
      realize is A PRISON CELL, deep sadness washes over her. 

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    When the survival of a species is 
                    your goal, a single member of that 
                    species means nothing.  That s why, 
                    on the Ark, every crime, no matter 
                    how small, is punishable by 
                    death... Unless you re under 18.  

      Reverie shattered, she stands, burying the sadness, hardening 
      before our eyes.  What we see on the walls is revealing:  

      Every inch of space is covered by drawings of Earth.  Mostly 
      scenes of nature, but there are human structures, too.  We 
      already knew she was talented.  Now we know she s obsessed.  

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    Juvenile offenders get put here.  
                    Lock up.  We call it  the sky box.    

      She reaches for a shelf, takes an eyedropper from a small 
      vial marked H2O, squeezes a few drops onto her tongue.

      As she stands there, savoring it, we see a lone photograph on 
      the shelf:

      5-YEAR-OLD CLARKE and her young PARENTS beneath a willow tree 
      in an atrium on the Ark.  Happier times.  We know it s on the 
      Ark because the Earth is visible through windows behind them. 

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    At 18, all cases are reviewed.  
                    Most prisoners get released back 
                    into the population.  The rest of 
                    us, prisoners like me, so-called 
                    traitors to our people, get 
                    released, too... Through an 
                    airlock, floated into space.  
                    There s no oxygen, it s 450 degrees 
                    below zero and the pressure 
                      differential of the vacuum bursts 
                    your organs... but, hey, at least 
                    you ve got a nice view.

      Just then comes the sound of A KEY IN THE DOOR.                                                                                        4


      It shoots her through with fear.  There s barely time to turn 
      before TWO ARMED GUARDS storm the cell.  

                                  GUARD #1
                    Prisoner 3-1-9, face the wall!

      Clarke s eyes go to the open door for a moment, but, as the 
      guards converge, she obeys, turning to face the wall.

                                  CLARKE
                    ... What is this?

                                  GUARD #1
                    Quiet!  Hold out your right arm!

      He grabs her arm, but she resists, starting to panic now, 
      assuming they re here for her execution... 

                                  CLARKE
                    ... Wait.  It s not my time.  I 
                    don t turn 18 for another month.

      Guard #2 draws a shock baton, fires it up.  The deep THRUM 
      alone is enough to bring compliance.  As Clarke holds out her 
      right arm, we see that she wears a man s wristwatch. 

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    ... Just check my file.  Please.  
                    You re early.  You ll see that. 

      The guards ignore her.  They have work to do here.  Guard #1 
      removes A WIDE METALLIC CUFF from a storage case lined with 
      them, opens the device and moves it toward Clarke s wrist. 

      She has no idea what it is, but the dozens of barbed probes 
      that line the inside are clearly going to hurt.  

                                  GUARD #1
                    Take off her watch.

                                  CLARKE
                    ... No.  It was my father s.

      The guards don t care.  If they could see her face, they d 
      know what we know:  No way she s letting them take her watch.

      Guard #2 is reaching for her wrist when an elbow EXPLODES 
      into his solar-plexus.  As he buckles, Clarke spins, shoving 
      him hard into Guard #1 and making a break for the door.  

      There s fear in her face.  She knows this can t end well.  
      Doesn t care.  Behind her, the guards recover fast, but not 
      before Clarke is out the door, SLAMMING it closed.                                                                                        5



      Her mind races, trying not to panic, straining for next 
      moves, when what she finds in the corridor stops her cold:

      All along the cell block, on floors above and below,     
      JUVENILE PRISONERS are being led out of their cells.      
      Each of them is badly shaken and in some pain from the 
      IDENTICAL WRISTBANDS now biting into their wrists.  

      Before Clarke can even begin to make sense of all the 
      activity, POUNDING from inside her cell gets attention.   

                                  ABBY (O.S.)
                    Clarke, stop!  They ll hurt you!

      Emotion crashes like a wave as Clarke turns to see a WOMAN in 
      a white lab coat rushing toward her along the rail.

                                  CLARKE
                    ... Mom?

      Despite twelve years and infinite sadness, we recognize 
      Clarke s mother from the photograph.  ABBY is 40 now with an 
      air of seriousness that comes from authority.  

      More GUARDS are converging, but Abby s presence gives them 
      pause as she wraps her daughter in her arms... 

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    ... Mom, what is this?        
                    What s going on?

      Abby can t speak.  Holding her child for both the first time 
      in almost a year and, quite possibly, the last time ever 
      scrambles her thoughts.

      Clarke pulls back, looking from the pain in her mother s eyes 
      to the rows of young inmates as a terrifying thought strikes.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    They re killing us all, aren t 
                    they?  Reducing population to make 
                    more time for the rest of you. 

                                  ABBY
                          (guiding her aside)
                    No.  Quiet.  That secret s already 
                    done enough damage to this family.

                                  CLARKE
                    Wrong, keeping it has.  People have 
                    a right to know the Ark is dying.                                                                                      6


      Both of them hate the fact that they can t get past this, 
      hate the fact that it divides them even now, but the sight of   
      A GUARD RECEIVING ORDERS in an earpiece changes the subject.   

                                  ABBY
                    Clarke, please, just listen.     
                    This is not what you think.  You re 
                    not being executed.  You re being 
                    sent to the ground.  All one 
                    hundred of you. 

      Clarke blinks.  The meaning of that is so incomprehensible 
      that it s as if she doesn t understand the words...

                                  CLARKE
                    ... What?  But it s not safe.     
                    No.  We get reviewed at 18.  

                                  ABBY
                    The rules have changed.  There are 
                    no prisoner reviews anymore.  This 
                    gives you a chance to live. 

      Abby sees the guard lining up a shot with a tranq gun.  She 
      knows that this is goodbye, touches her daughter s face...     

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Your instinct will be to take   
                    care of everyone else first,    
                    just like your father, but be 
                    careful.  I can t lose you, too. 

      Tears stream from her eyes.  She sees how frightened Clarke 
      is, but there s nothing more she can say.  

      And no time to say it.

      THE DART STRIKES, the drug hits, and Clarke collapses back 
      into her mother s arms as EVERYTHING GOES BLACK.

                                  ABBY (O.S.) (CONT D)
                    Earth, Clarke.  You get to go     
                    to Earth.

      MAIN TITLES: THE HUNDRED



                                          END TEASER                                                                                      7


                                            ACT ONE



      FADE UP:  We re still in CLARKE S POV as consciousness 
      returns.  Her eyes travel around the stark compartment, 
      before a smiling FACE TAKES SHAPE FROM OUT OF THE BLUR.

      WELLS JAHA (17, handsome and well-bred compared to the young 
      criminals all around them) is relieved that Clarke is okay.

                                  WELLS
                    Welcome back.  

      NORMAL VIEW RETURNS as the sight of Wells fills Clarke with 
      rage.  She lunges at him...

                                  CLARKE
                    ... You sonofabitch!

      A safety harness holds her back.  FORTY OTHER PRISONERS are 
      strapped in just like her.  Despite delinquent bravado, all 
      are terrified.  Clarke s bearings flood back.  She remembers: 

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    ... Earth.

      Pain shoots through her right arm.  She looks to see the 
      wristband now locked in place there.  She finds her father s 
      watch on her other wrist.  Her mother must have moved it.

                                  WELLS
                    Look, I know we broke up, but --

                                  CLARKE
                    Wells, why the hell are you here?!

      The vitriol in her eyes cuts Wells, but he understands it...

                                  WELLS
                    When I found out they were sending 
                    the prisoners to the ground, I got 
                    myself arrested... I came for you.

      Clarke glares at him, multiple levels of disbelief in her 
      eyes, but before she can respond...

                                  A GIRL ACROSS FROM THEM
                    Aww, the royal couple s fighting.

      LAUGHTER is cut short when the ship is suddenly JOLTED.      
        A collective GASP.  Clarke and Wells grip their seats.                                                                                       8


                                  CLARKE
                    ... What was that?

                                  WELLS
                    That... was the atmosphere.

      She looks over again, awe temporarily swamping hatred,  
      before another, even bigger JOLT wipes it away.

      As if triggered by the bumps, VIDEO MONITORS around the cabin 
      suddenly flash to life with a pre-recorded message:  

      A man in a suit appears.  CHANCELLOR JAHA, 47, is handsome, 
      almost regal, deadly serious...

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    Prisoners of the Ark, hear me now.  
                    You ve been given a second chance.

      Despite this group s almost universal resentment of 
      authority, in this moment of terror, the appearance of     
      the ultimate authority figure provides some with relief.  

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS) (CONT D)
                    As your Chancellor, it is my hope 
                    that you see this as not just a 
                    chance for you, but for all of us.  
                    Indeed, for mankind itself...

      Wells reacts differently.  His eyes FILL.  Clarke looks over, 
      but he refuses to meet her stare as she WHISPERS:  

                                  CLARKE (OVERLAPPING)
                    Sending his own son to die on the 
                    ground.  Now that s leadership.

                                  VOICE IN THE CROWD (OVERLAPPING)
                    Your dad s a dick, Wells.



      The violence of reentry will build through all of the 
      following.  So will the heat... and the fear.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS) 
                    If the odds of survival were 
                    better, we would have sent others. 
                    Frankly, we re sending you because 
                    your crimes have made you... 
                      expendable.  If, however, you do 
                    survive, then those crimes will   
                    be forgiven.  Your records wiped 
                    clean.  No execution upon your 
                      eighteenth birthday.  No review.  
                    No probation.  A second chance.

      The CAMERA IS ON THE MOVE throughout the speech.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS) (CONT D)
                    This is not, however, a waiver 
                    against future crimes.  While 
                      unsupervised, you will adhere to 
                    the laws of the Ark, or you will be 
                    punished under them.  You have one 
                    job, ladies and gentlemen, one 
                      responsibility... Stay alive.  Two 
                    months.  That s how long it will 
                    take to be certain that it s safe 
                    for the rest of us to follow...  

      Just then, a severe jolt opens a storage compartment.  A few 
      rolled maps spill out, floating weightlessly overhead.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS) (CONT D)
                    In the meantime, some of you may be 
                    tempted to strike out on your own.  
                    Don t.  Your drop site has been 
                    chosen carefully. 

      A face in the crowd gets our attention: FINN, 17 and ruggedly 
      handsome, lights up when he sees the floating maps... 

                                  FINN (OVERLAPPING)
                    Oh, hell yes.

      With that, he draws a shiv from his boot and cuts the straps 
      of his harness, floating out of his chair, loving it.   

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    Before the Last War, Mount Weather 
                    was a military base built within a 
                    mountain in order to shelter the 
                      government of the United States...                                                                                      10


      Finn launches himself, soaring exuberantly through the air  
      to the delight of the crowd.

                                    A VOICE FROM THE CROWD (OVERLAPPING)
                    Spacewalk Bandit strikes again!

      A CHEER goes up.  It seems Finn is a bit of a folk hero.   
      TWO MORE BOYS follow his lead, cutting loose, then flying.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    ...No one ever made it there. 
                    According to the archive, it was to 
                    be stocked with enough non-
                      perishables to sustain three 
                    hundred people for up to two years.  
                    Because we could spare you no food, 
                    water, or medicine, you must 
                      immediately locate those supplies. 

      Finn drifts over to Wells, hovering above him...

                                  FINN (OVERLAPPING)
                    Check it out.  Your dad floated me 
                    after all.  

      LAUGHTER, but not from Wells.  From Clarke, a slight smile...

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    I cannot stress this strongly 
                    enough... Mount Weather is life.

                                  CLARKE (OVERLAPPING)
                    You should come down before the 
                    parachute deploys.  All of you.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    It is from there, God willing, that 
                    the next age of man will begin... 
                    with you.   

      Finn turns his attention to Clarke.  Because he ignores her 
      warning, so do the other two now-somersaulting floaters.

                                  FINN (OVERLAPPING)
                    You re the traitor who s been in 
                    solitary for a year.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    Finally, I m sure you re wondering 
                    about those wristbands...  

                                  CLARKE (OVERLAPPING)
                    You re the idiot who wasted a month 
                    of oxygen on an illegal spacewalk.                                                                                      11


      Finn lowers almost to her lap, floating on his back...

                                  FINN (OVERLAPPING)
                    Yeah, but it was fun.  I m Finn.

      Clarke can t believe he s flirting with her now.  As much as 
      we like this guy, Wells doesn t. 

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITOR)
                    They are not punishment.  They are 
                      a lifeline.  They are how we will --

      That s when THE PARACHUTE DEPLOYS.  Sudden rapid deceleration 
      ends the fun in an instant. 

      The awful sound of TEARING METAL comes from all around.    
      The video monitors go black, never to be heard from again.  
      The floaters SLAM to the floor with bone-crushing force.    

      The two who followed Finn are killed instantly.  It s only 
      because Finn was near the floor already that he survives.

      Clarke sees that the other two aren t moving.  She wants to 
      help them, fights to get out of her harness, can t.

                                  WELLS
                    Clarke, stop!  The harnesses won t 
                    release until we re on the ground!

                                  CLARKE
                    Finn!  Are you okay?!

      He nods, shaken but unharmed.  She points to the others...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    Check on them!

      Finn is making his way across the unstable floor when an 
      EXPLOSION comes from below.  Another HUGE jolt.  Another 
      collective SCREAM.  Fortunately, Wells did his homework... 

                                  WELLS
                    It s okay!  Just the heat shield 
                    popping off!  Retro-rockets are 
                    next!  Three seconds, two, one.   

      Nothing happens.  Wells is suddenly terrified...

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    ... They should ve fired by now.  

      As he listens, it dawns on him that they re all about to die.                                                                                       12


                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    ... Clarke, there s something I 
                    have to tell you.
                          (suddenly solemn)
                    I m sorry.  All I did was ask my 
                    father a question.  To this day, I 
                    have no idea how or why that got 
                    you and your father arrested.

      She holds his stare, can t believe he s doing this now.

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    Please.  I love you.  I can t die 
                    knowing that you hate me.

      A beat.  She knows he needs absolution.  Too fucking bad.

                                  CLARKE
                    They didn t arrest my father, 
                    Wells.  They executed him...  
                    I do hate you.

      Quiet, devastating truth.  Wells is still searching for a 
      response when THE ROCKETS FINALLY FIRE.  A volcanic ROAR.  

      Again, bodies react to the sudden deceleration.  Flight 
      begins to stabilize.  Of course, as soon as they start to 
      believe they might actually make it, THE WORST OF IT BEGINS.  

      SHAKING unlike any that s come before.  This isn t 
      turbulence, it s something else.  HUNDREDS OF INDIVIDUAL 
      COLLISIONS.  Not yet on the ground.  Possibly trees.  

      A few more terrifying seconds and... SILENCE.  Gradually, it 
      becomes clear that they re actually on the ground.  

                                  GIRL A FEW SEATS OVER
                    ... Listen.  No machine hum.

      Clarke and Wells are struck by it, too.  It s the first time 
      in any of their lives that they ve experienced real silence.  

      Finally, and all at once, the harnesses RELEASE.  

      Clarke starts instantly for the boys lying on the floor as, 
      all around her, people are slowly rising.  

                                  RANDOM VOICE (O.S.)
                    The outer door s below!  Let s go!  

      Nearly to the motionless boys, Clarke hears that and whirls.

                                  CLARKE
                    No!!  We can t just open the door!!                                                                                       13



      Clarke climbs down.  The SIXTY PASSENGERS here are already 
      gathering at the outer door where A YOUNG MAN in a guard s 
      uniform is about to pull the release lever.

                                  CLARKE
                    STOP!!!

      Everything stops.  The young man turns.  At 23, BELLAMY is 
      five years older than even the oldest of the prisoners.    
      His shirt and pants are splattered with blood.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    The air could be toxic! 

      Bellamy watches her force her way through the crowd.  She 
      sees the blood as she arrives, reaches to examine him...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    You re hurt.

      He turns back to the door to avoid her hand...

                                    BELLAMY
                    If the air s toxic, we re all   
                    dead anyway.  

      He grabs the lever again.  Clarke knows he s right, but out 
      of an abundance of caution is about to stop him anyway when a 
      VOICE from behind does it for her:

                                    OCTAVIA (O.S.)
                    Bellamy?

      Bellamy turns to see OCTAVIA, 16, strikingly beautiful, 
      frozen on the ladder.  His face softens at the sight of her.  
      Seeing that it s him, she jumps down and rushes toward him.

                                    BELLAMY
                          (suddenly emotional)
                    ... My God, look how big you are.

                                    OCTAVIA
                          (leaping into his arms)
                    What are you doing here?

                                    BELLAMY
                    Someone had to keep an eye on you.

      It s a nice moment.  Clarke watches with dawning suspicion, 
      finally noticing that Bellamy isn t wearing a wristband...                                                                                      14


                                  CLARKE
                    Where s your wristband?

                                    OCTAVIA
                          (openly hostile)
                    You mind?  I haven t seen my 
                    brother in three years.

      The word  brother  causes a stir.  We ll gather from VARIOUS 
      VOICES IN THE CROWD that on the Ark...

                                    VARIOUS VOICES
                    No one has a brother...  Why do you 
                    think they locked her up?... That s 
                    Octavia Black, the girl they found 
                    hidden in the floor. 

      Octavia s infamy, unlike Finn s, induces pity not admiration.  
      She hates that.  Enraged, she recklessly lunges at the last 
      person to speak.  Bellamy holds her back...

                                    BELLAMY
                    Octavia, no.  Let s give  em 
                    something else to remember you by.

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Like what?!

                                    BELLAMY
                    Like being the first person on the 
                    ground in a hundred years.

      With that, he finally throws the lever.  

      Clarke braces for anything, but as the door swings open, she 
      is utterly unprepared for what she sees:     

      Daylight streams in.  The sight of trees.  A breeze.

      It s the same in all of their faces.  For a moment, no one 
      can move.  They just stand there gazing out in awe at...  

                                  CLARKE
                    ... A forest.

      The crowd surges, but Bellamy stands his ground, blocking the 
      door as he gestures for his sister to lead the way.  

      Octavia hesitates, but just for a moment, before seizing her 
      chance to make history.                                                                                      15



      An agitated CROWD has gathered in the atrium that connects     
      GO-SCI to the rest of the Ark through a system of tubes.

      A good sample of the populace, they are hard-working and hard- 
      edged.  Life in space is not easy and it shows on every face.

      A GUARD UNIT backs up the Ark s Chief Communications Officer, 
      CALLIE CARTWIG, 42; everyone calls her  Cece.    This is the 
      part of her job that she hates.  The lying part.

                                  CECE
                    Folks, as I said, at this time,    
                    we can t confirm or deny anything. 

                                    VARIOUS VOICES
                    I saw a ship launch...Not more than 
                    20 minutes ago...Who was on it?...  
                    Was it the prisoners?...They going 
                    to Earth?...Has something changed? 

      The guards are clearly about to move in when a WOMAN in the 
      crowd WHISTLES loudly, bringing instant quiet.

      Like many here, she s come from work, in her case as a 
      mechanic.  Unlike most, RAVEN, 35, is in total control... 

                                  RAVEN
                    Cool it.  Our elected leaders  
                    would never send our kids to die 
                    without telling us.  Isn t that 
                    right, ma am?

      Cece holds her stare, offering her best bullshit smile. 



      Cece strides into a jury-rigged control room.  Wires are 
      showing everywhere.  The mood here is dark, verging on panic.

      As she heads for the HIGH-LEVEL GROUP at the center of the 
      technological swirl, her eyes take ours to THE BIG BOARD:                                                                                      18


      A monitor wall split into a grid of a hundred separate feeds, 
      one for each wristband.  Vital signs and MUG SHOTS are there.  

      Cece stops beside the man who is clearly in charge: 

      KANE, 42, is handsome, but there s a coldness about him even 
      at first glance.  He d call it professionalism.  At the 
      moment, he s being briefed by a TECH as to why there was a... 

                                    COMMUNICATIONS TECH 
                    Total system failure!  That s what 
                    we re looking at here.  We know 
                    they were off course when we lost 
                      contact... There s no way they 
                    landed at Mount Weather.

      That hits hard, darkening every expression.

                                    COMMUNICATIONS TECH (CONT D)
                    Other than telemetry from the 
                      wristbands, we got nothing.  No 
                    audio.  No video.  No computer 
                    link.  Right now, we have to assume 
                    they can t access the system from 
                    the ground either.  That means 
                      everything we programmed in to help 
                    them is gone.  Other than a few old 
                    maps, they re on their own.  

      Kane is about to respond when he sees Cece at his side...

                                  KANE
                    Cece, we re a little busy.

                                  CECE
                    Rumors are spreading... sir.  Most 
                    of them true.  We have to at least 
                    tell the families something.

                                  KANE
                    Fine.  Take this down... We regret 
                    to inform you that your delinquent 
                    sons and daughters who will no 
                    longer be consuming resources they 
                    don t deserve may or may not be 
                    dying in a radioactive haze on the 
                    ground.  How s that?

                                  CECE 
                    Can t confirm or deny, it is.

      With that, she heads for the board where we now see Abby 
      monitoring wristband signals with her TEAM OF APPRENTICES.  
      It s clear at once that Cece and Abby are dear friends...                                                                                      19


                                  CECE (CONT D)
                    Hey, darlin ... How s Clarke doing?

                                  ABBY
                    Third row, second square down.  
                    Vital signs are strong.  Blood 
                    sugar is low.  She hasn t eaten.

      We see Clarke s defiant mug shot.  Emotion threatens, but as 
      Kane strides up to address the medical team, she buries it.

                                  KANE
                    Okay.  Here it is:  Communication 
                    is down.  Everything.  Unless one 
                    of the prisoners can put it back 
                    together on their end, it s gonna 
                    stay that way.  Which means, 
                      unfortunately, we re still blind to 
                      conditions on the ground.  But... 
                    thanks to Abby s wristbands, at 
                    least we ll know how those 
                      conditions affect the human body.  
                    That s more than we ve had for a 
                    hundred years.  So nice work...  
                    Now what are they telling us?

      His lack of emotion bothers Abby, but she stays focused.

                                  ABBY
                    Two dead kids.  The dark tiles.

      Kane sees now that, indeed, two of the tiles on the big board     
      are dark.  We recognize the mug shots of the dead floaters.

                                  KANE
                    At least it s not Clarke or Wells.

                                  CECE
                    Where is the Chancellor anyway?  

                                  ABBY
                    He ll be here... Dr. Jackson, 
                    please share your theory with 
                      Councillor Kane.

      JACKSON, 27, Abby s chief apprentice, assumes the floor...

                                    JACKSON
                    Of course.  Granted, they ve only 
                    been on the ground seven minutes, 
                    but as of now, we believe that the 
                      fatalities are due to the landing, 
                    not to radiation levels.                                                                                      20


                                  ABBY
                    Both boys died at the same time we 
                    lost contact with the dropship.

                                  KANE
                    Rough landing?  That s your theory?

                                  ABBY
                    The dots connect. 

                                  KANE
                    Would you agree that if it was 
                      radiation, we d see the number of 
                      fatalities climb fairly quickly 
                    now?  Because I m noticing quite a 
                    lot of red on your board, Doctor.

      We notice it now, too:  Many of the tiles are lined in red.  

                                  ABBY
                    Spiking vital signs.  Two 
                      possibilities.  One... injuries 
                    sustained during landing.  

                                  KANE
                    And the other?

                                  ABBY
                    They re excited to be there.

      Kane is concerned about wishful thinking, but before he can 
      say so, a phone TRILLS on the console.  Abby answers...

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    This is Doctor Walters.
                          (instantly deadly serious)
                    On my way.
                          (hanging up; then)
                    Jackson, put the word out.  We need 
                    blood.  A-neg.  A lot of it.  Then 
                    get your ass to the OR.

                                  CECE
                    Abby?  What is it?

                                  ABBY
                    The Chancellor s been shot.  



      Kane sits at the head of a huge table, Earth visible through 
      a window behind him.  The NAMEPLATE tells us he s trying the 
        Chancellor s chair on for size, liking the way it feels when 
      he hears A DOOR OPEN, quickly stands and turns to the window.

      If the uniformed COMMANDER OF THE GUARD knows what Kane was 
      doing, he doesn t let on.  His devotion to Kane is clear... 

                                  COMMANDER OF THE GUARD
                    Excuse me, sir, you asked to be 
                      interrupted if there was news. 

      Kane doesn t turn.  In his face, we see that he thinks this 
      is the moment he becomes Chancellor.  Then he hears: 

                                  COMMANDER OF THE GUARD (CONT D)
                    The Chancellor is still in surgery, 
                    but we ve ID d the shooter.

      Takes Kane a moment to push back disappointment.  By the time 
      he turns, the Commander has summoned up an image on the huge 
      touch screen monitor that doubles as the council table:

      BELLAMY S FACE ON A SANITATION CREW ID CARD. 

                                  COMMANDER OF THE GUARD (CONT D)
                    Bellamy Black is the only person on 
                    the Ark unaccounted for.

                                  KANE
                    Who is he?

                                  COMMANDER OF THE GUARD
                    He s no one.  A janitor.  We re 
                    still working up a profile, but his 
                    motive for going to Earth is clear.

      He brings up the MUG SHOTS of the prisoners alongside 
      Bellamy, selecting OCTAVIA S.  So young.  So afraid.  Nothing 
      like the vivacious girl we re getting to know on the ground. 

                                  KANE
                    Sister.  I remember them.  Their 
                    mother kept her hidden for almost 
                    thirteen years.  Nearly a record. 

      Something in the Commander s expression stops Kane...

                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    What is it, Commander Shumway?

      The Commander hesitates.                                                                                      29


                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    Spit it out.

                                  COMMANDER SHUMWAY
                    We could start now.  As Chancellor 
                    Pro Tempore, you can give the order 
                    to begin reducing the population.  

      It hangs there.  Kane is clearly tempted.  Then...

                                  KANE
                    Not yet.  The Chancellor s Hail 
                    Mary mission to Earth is failing.  
                    Once it s clear the ground still 
                    isn t an option, the council will 
                    get in line.  
                          (looking back down to 
                            Bellamy s picture)
                    In the meantime, I d like to know 
                    who helped this janitor get on that 
                    dropship.  Because he sure as hell 
                    didn t do it by himself.

      The Commander says nothing, but clearly agrees.

                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    It seems we have a traitor in our 
                    midst, Commander... 
                          (looking to the mug shots)
                    And the Hundred have an assassin  
                    in theirs.



                                        END ACT TWO                                                                                      30


                                          ACT THREE



      Abby has been operating on the Chancellor for hours.  
      Jackson, her chief apprentice, assists.  Two NURSES.

      Medical supplies, we are about to realize, like everything on 
      the Ark, are severely rationed.  

      Moments after we arrive, the patient starts to wake up mid-
      surgery.  He jerks from the pain of it.  Vital signs dive.

                                  ABBY
                    Increase anesthesia.

      The nurse whose job it is hesitates.  Abby looks over...

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Your Chancellor is going into 
                    shock.  Now do it!

                                    JACKSON
                    Abby, we re way over the line.  
                    According to the law, we have to --

                                  ABBY
                    I ll do it myself.  Let  em come 
                    after me.

      Jackson turns into her path, stopping her, whispering...

                                    JACKSON
                    Boss, come on.  You really gonna 
                    risk your life to save the man who 
                    ordered your husband s execution?

      Without hesitating, she turns the knob, releasing the gas.  
      The Chancellor calms instantly.  Vitals stabilize. 



      Just out of surgery, Abby strides heatedly down a long 
      connector tube.  Cece rushes to catch up...                                                                                      36


                                  CECE
                    Ab, slow down.  How is he?

                                  ABBY
                    Ask me again if he makes it  
                    through the night.

      Before Cece can respond, a MAINTENANCE WORKER on a ladder 
      suddenly drops down into their path.  

      It s Raven, Finn s mother as it turns out, and it s clear at 
      once that Cece, not work, is the real reason she s here...

                                  RAVEN
                    Where the hell s my son?

      Despite Raven s strong facade, the wounded mother in Abby  
      senses a kindred spirit.  Cece checks her ID badge, then...

                                  CECE
                    Let s see your work order, Raven.  

      Clearly, she doesn t have one.  Cece starts for a nearby 
      intercom to report it, but Abby stops her...

                                  ABBY
                    It s okay.

      The kindness gets Raven s attention.  She looks at Abby for 
      the first time, recognizing her at once...

                                  RAVEN
                    Your kid s locked up, too.

      Abby s taken aback.  Raven plows right through...

                                  RAVEN (CONT D)
                    My son, Finn Hawthorne, missed 
                    message day today for the first 
                    time in two years.  Same day folks 
                    saw a ship leave.  One with seating 
                    for a hundred.  I got friends who 
                    worked on it.  A hundred.  Same as 
                    the number of cells in the Sky Box.  
                    You see where I m going with this? 

                                  CECE
                    Come on, Abby.  We have to go.

      But before she can lead Abby past, Raven grabs Abby s arm...

                                  RAVEN
                    ... Wait.                                                                                        37


      Her facade cracks.  Her desperation shows.  She hates that.

                                  RAVEN (CONT D)
                    I may not be important, but my son 
                    means as much to me as your 
                    daughter does to you.  Please... 
                    tell me where my child is.

      Abby holds her stare, trying to decide what to do.  



      Abby leads Raven into the monitoring station.  Less chaotic 
      than before.  They have entered watch and wait mode.  

      It s clear from the shock in Raven s face that Abby brought 
      her up to speed on the walk over.

      The moment they enter, Abby s eyes go to the big board,  
      where TWO MORE DARK SQUARES can now be seen.  Two more dead 
      kids.  She tries to hide concern from Raven, but it s clear.

                                  ABBY
                    Nothing leaves this room.     
                    Excuse me for one --

                                  RAVEN
                    You said two dead.  I count four.

                                  ABBY
                    Who else did we lose?

      An apprentice punches buttons, isolating the wristband feeds 
      and accompanying mug shots of THE TWO JOHNS. 

                                  APPRENTICE
                    Murphy and Mbege.  Both named John.   

      Raven is relieved.  She turns to the board, wanders closer, 
      searching for Finn s face as Abby joins her team.

                                  APPRENTICE (CONT D)
                    Neither was injured during landing.  

                                    JACKSON
                    I concur.  Something else killed 
                    these two.  One second they were 
                    fine, the next... bang.  

                                  ABBY
                    It wasn t radiation.                                                                                      38


                                    JACKSON
                    How can you be sure?

                                  ABBY
                    Because one-second-fine, the-next-
                    bang is not how exposure to 
                    radiation presents.  You know that.

                                    JACKSON
                    It could if there was enough of it.

                                  ABBY
                    If there was enough of it, they 
                    would all be dead!  

      It echoes.  She wishes she could take it back.  

      Raven looks over, meeting her stare from across the room.   
      No one else here knows how it feels.

      ON RAVEN -- as she turns back to the board and we see that 
      she s found Finn, HIS FACE now right in front of her.  Guy 
      can t even take a bad mug shot.  In it, he is without fear.

      Something primal stirs within her.  This is not the look of a 
      woman who will stop at knowing the truth about her son.  It s 
      the look of a mother who will stop at nothing to save him.



      It s dark.  The only light comes from a fire outside.     

      We find Wells sitting at a console, trying in vain to coax a 
      signal out of a dead communication system, clearly wallowing 
      in self-pity, when MUSIC wafts in through the open door.  

      It starts as a lament, GIRL S VOICE, haunting and beautiful.  
      Fits Wells  mood perfectly, then ANOTHER VOICE takes it up.  
      Spoken word poetry.  Very much like rap today.  CHEERS go up.  



      Abby and her team are standing before the big board,  
      reacting to the flatlining of another ten of their children.  

      ANOTHER TEN BLACK TILES on the board.

      Although darkness is threatening, we sense that Abby, at 
      least, is still pushing against the worst case scenario...

                                  ABBY
                    Ten more.  One after the next.  

      Jackson notices something else:  Vital signs in the majority 
      of wristband feeds moving in the same direction.  Heart rates 
      rising.  Body temps falling.  PLASMA OSMOLARITY ticking up.

                                    JACKSON
                    Abby, look at plasma osmolarity.   
                    It s going up across the board.

                                  ABBY
                    ... They found water.

      It s the first hopeful sign they ve had since the landing and  
      all of them gather to take it in.  

      Unfortunately, before hope can take root, the door bursts 
      open and a GUARD UNIT, led by Shumway, storms the room.                                                                                        47


                                  COMMANDER SHUMWAY
                      Councillor Abigail Walters, you are 
                    under arrest for violating supply 
                    chain order number twenty-four.

      The guards surround, securing Abby s hands behind her back as 
      Kane strides in behind them...  

                                  KANE
                    I m sorry this has to be public, 
                    but the policy on these matters is 
                    clear.  No special treatment.  

      Abby holds his stare.  Even now, she won t give him an inch.

                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    How much blood did you use, Abby?

                                    JACKSON
                    Don t answer that.

                                  ABBY
                    I used whatever it took.

      Jackson s face falls.  She s admitting it.

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Breaking the law to keep you from 
                    becoming Chancellor was the easiest 
                    decision I ever made.

                                  KANE
                    In that case... given your 
                      confession, in my role as 
                      Chancellor Pro Tempore, I have no 
                    choice but to find you guilty. 

                                  ABBY
                    We always have a choice, Kane.  You 
                    chose to press charges against my 
                    husband, your friend, even though 
                    you knew he d get floated for it.  
                    You chose to include my daughter in 
                    those charges.  And now you re 
                    choosing this.  Hiding behind the 
                    law absolves you of nothing.

                                  KANE
                          (after a beat)
                    Be that as it may, in accordance 
                    with Penal Code One, because all 
                    crimes committed by those above the 
                    age of majority are capital crimes, 
                    I hereby sentence you to death.                                                                                        48


      Abby s team is terrified.  Cracks show in her calm facade.  

                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    Execution is set for the morning.
                          (then; back to Abby)
                    I choose, at every turn and at any 
                    cost, to make sure that the human 
                    race stays alive. 

                                  ABBY
                    There s the difference between us, 
                    Kane.  I choose to make sure that 
                    we deserve to stay alive.

      Kane holds her stare for another moment, before nodding to 
      Commander Shumway.

                                  COMMANDER SHUMWAY
                    Put her in her daughter s cell.

      The guards lead Abby away.  Jackson falls in stride.  

                                  ABBY
                    Watch after the kids.  Connect the 
                    dots.  You can do this.

      With that, she s gone.  Jackson looks sharply back to Kane...

                                    JACKSON
                    This is madness.

                                  KANE
                    This is the law, Dr. Jackson.

                                    JACKSON
                    Then pardon her.  It s in your 
                    power to do that... under the law.

      Kane holds Jackson s pleading stare.  It may be in his power, 
      but it s not in his heart...

                                  KANE
                    Judging from the number of black 
                    squares on the board behind you, I 
                    think it s now safe to say that a 
                    return to Earth is still not an 
                    option.  I ll need your suggested 
                      parameters for population reduction 
                    on my desk as soon as possible.  

      Jackson pales.  Kane strides out.  Door SLAMS.  No one moves.                                                                                      49



      Abby is led into her daughter s old cell.  The drawings still 
      on the walls strike her at once, but she shows nothing.  

      Handcuffs are removed.  Guards leave.  Door SLAMS.

      Only now, alone, does she let the full weight of everything 
      show in her face.  Tears stream from her eyes.

      ABBY S POV -- A DRAWING OF THE WOODS AT NIGHT



      Raven follows the hard-as-nails JUNK MAN through a shadow-
      filled maze of satellite and space station parts.                                                                                      52


                                  JUNK MAN
                    They set a time for Finn s review?  

      Raven nods slightly.  Hates lying, but she ll do it.

                                  JUNK MAN (CONT D)
                    Don t worry.  If I got through it, 
                    he will.  No way they ll float 
                    someone with skills like his.   
                    Only person better with a wrench 
                    than him is his mother. 

                                  RAVEN
                    I don t remember you being such a 
                    talker, Red.

      Red smiles, comes to a stop in front of something covered by 
      a tarp, pulls it off to reveal a dilapidated ESCAPE POD. 

      One look and we understand: Raven is going after her son.

                                  JUNK MAN
                    Russian.  They found it when they 
                    reeled in Mir in  16.  

                                  RAVEN
                    Does it have a working radio?

                                  JUNK MAN
                    Yeah.  Why do you need a radio?



      Wells sleeps alone in the darkened cabin.  

      Suddenly, THERE S A HAND OVER HIS MOUTH.  

      It s Bellamy.  Wells struggles.  Bellamy holds up a gun.    

      No more struggle.  

                                        END ACT FOUR                                                                                      53


                                          ACT FIVE



      Abby is being ceremonially led across the same hangar bay 
      where her husband was executed.  An armed COLOR GUARD marches 
      ten feet behind.  Jackson and Cece walk on either side.   

      Abby is not crying, not showing fear.  Even as she s led to 
      her death, her mind is on the kids...

                                  ABBY
                    How many more overnight?

                                    JACKSON
                    Abby --

                                  ABBY
                    Goddamn it, Jackson, answer me.

                                    JACKSON
                    Just one.

      She looks at him.  Showing fear for the first time.  The way 
      he said it could only mean Clarke.  Then she hears:

                                    JACKSON (CONT D)
                    Wells.

      A moment of relief followed instantly by crushing sadness.    
      She looks to Cece who clearly already knew.  

                                    JACKSON (CONT D)
                    Just over an hour ago.  Vital signs 
                    spiked, then flatlined.

      Abby knows this is bad.  Wells isn t some delinquent who 
      would take off his wristband and he wasn t injured during 
      landing.  For the first time, outwardly anyway, she 
        acknowledges her deepest fear: she sent her daughter to die.

      Cece takes her hand.  Takes Abby a moment to push past the 
      fact that her world is crashing down, but she manages it...

                                  ABBY
                    Jackson, listen to me.  Kane will 
                    wait until after he s sworn in to 
                    begin reducing the population.

                                  CECE
                    Come on, Ab, the Chancellor could 
                    still make it.

                                  ABBY
                    Even if he does, I won t be here to 
                    argue against Kane.  
                                  (MORE)                                                                                      56

                                  ABBY (CONT'D)
                          (back to Jackson)
                    That has to be you now. 

                                    JACKSON
                    He already asked for 
                      recommendations.

                                  ABBY
                    Good.  No, that s good.  First 
                    thing you ll do is make the case 
                    for a lottery.  If council members  
                    families can be taken, they ll be 
                    less likely to rubber-stamp Kane s 
                    agenda.  You understand?

      Jackson nods, amazed by her strength as they reach the symbol 
      of the Ark on the floor directly below the hangar bay door. 
      This is where they leave her.  Still, Abby s not done...

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Listen to me.  While the council 
                    drags its feet, you do everything 
                    you can to reestablish contact with 
                    the kids.  

      Jackson gets pulled away by a guard.  Before the same can 
      happen to Cece, she lunges forward, hugging her friend.

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                          (fighting back tears)
                    ... Watch over Clarke for me?  

      Cece nods, WEEPING as she s dragged away and Abby is left 
      there all alone.  Terror seeps in, but, remarkably, she 
      buries it, calling after them...

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Jackson!  Use the wristbands!  
                    There may be a way to reverse 
                    engineer them for communication.  
                    Talk to Sinclair in engineering.  
                    Nod if you understand!

      Jackson nods as he and Cece are ushered through a door into 
      an observation room.  Door SLAMS.  Abby is now utterly alone.



      The witnesses to the execution stand before a wide window.  
      Abby stands alone in a pillar of light across the bay.  
      Prayers are MUTTERED.  Tears on every face, save Kane s.                                                                                      57


      Another beat and he nods to the executioner.  The man lifts 
      his hand, about to bring it down on the button when the door 
      behind them bursts open.  

      Everyone turns to see Chancellor Jaha in a wheelchair being 
      pushed by a very out of breath ORDERLY.  There are tubes and 
      wires coming out of him and he is visibly frail, but anger 
      gives him the strength to stand.  

      He rises in front of an already shaken Kane, then...  

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA
                    Dr. Walters is pardoned.  

      Relief soars.  Kane holds his stare.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (CONT D)
                    I ll deal with you later.

      Kane glances once more to Abby, who is already striding 
      toward them, before walking off.  

      A guard opens the door and Abby strides in, looking past all 
      of the relieved faces, her eyes landing on the Chancellor...

                                  ABBY
                    I spent twelve hours putting your 
                      intestines back together.  
                          (to the orderly)
                    Get him back into bed.  Now.  

      The orderly tries to lower the Chancellor back to the chair, 
      but he holds out a hand, stopping him.  

      His eyes lock onto Abby s.  We won t be surprised to learn in 
      series that he s in love with her...

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA
                    I m sorry that I couldn t do this 
                    for your husband.  

      She says nothing, simply strides past him, out the door.   
      The Chancellor knows he s unforgiven, looks to the others...  

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (CONT D)
                    Someone tell me about the Hundred.       
                    Did they make it?



      Kane stands in his spartan, meticulously neat quarters, 
      downing a glass of moonshine, letting it warm him when the 
      door opens and Cece strides in.  He says nothing.  She does:                                                                                      58


                                  CECE
                    You can t try to kill everyone who 
                    disagrees with you, Kane.

      He takes another deep drink, then... 

                                  KANE
                    You all think I m the bad guy,   
                    but I m the only one willing to   
                    do what it takes to save us.

      Before she can respond, he pulls her in roughly, pressing his 
      mouth to hers.  She SLAPS him across the face, holding his 
      wide-eyed stare for a moment, before kissing him back.

      Raw, angry passion.  Clearly, these two have secretly been 
      fucking.  This time, before it can get past a kiss, Cece s 
      conscience wins out and she abruptly pushes away from him...

                                  CECE
                    ... She s my best friend!

                                  KANE
                    What do you want me to say,      
                    I m sorry?  I m not.

      Cece stands there for another moment, wondering what the hell 
      she s doing here, disgusted with herself as much as Kane, 
      before finally turning without a word and striding back out.

      Kane simply pours himself another drink.


