
        A work light FLARES INTO CAMERA, then pans to a monstrous 
        brick and metal industrial furnace the size of a school 
        bus. Rust. Mold. Flaked paint. Several small metal doors 
        create an inadvertent threatening dragon face, augmented 
        by rising metal exhaust vents extending from the furnace 
        body into the darkness of the upper levels.

        Four demolition crew members stand at the face. The 
          demolition foreman marches toward them, not wearing a 
          respirator. It s cold down here. His breath, visible.

                                          FOREMAN
                      How many times we been over this? There 
                    is no asbestos fiber in this furnace.

        The demolition foreman yanks on the handle. Again. No 
        use. The rust has welded it closed. The foreman moves 
        around the side of the furnace... 

                                          FOREMAN (CONT D)
                      Pull out these vents and go in through 
                      the exhaust windows...

        He tugs on the insulation enwrapping an exhaust vent. 
        Metal GROANS, then, with a startling shock... the entire 
        ten foot long vent COLLAPSES. 

          A mummified female body, arms crossed, tumbles out of the 
        vent INTO CAMERA. Startled, the foreman YELLS, jumps out 
        of the way, as does every member of his crew. The dead 
        body settles on the ground in the harsh noir work light. 

        The leathery discolored skin pulled away from the teeth 
        and eye sockets frozen in a horrified expression. The 
        arms are crossed across the chest in the pose of an 
          Egyptian pharaoh.                                                                                     2


        The chipped painted fingernails are cracked and jagged. 
        The skull displays hair but, it has been brutishly cut.

                                                                                CUT TO:



          A FLASHof light from two Panometriccameras, mounted on 
        the same tripod. 

          Detective, CATHERINE JENSEN, late 20 s, is taking 
          forensic photos until large, 250 lbs., Lieutenant 
          Detective MIKE DUNN, 40, absently steps between the 
        victim and forensic camera. Although a good detective, 
        Dunn, an arrogant veteran cop, has grown cynical and 
        knows how to manipulate the work load.


          REVERSE - CATHERINE JENSEN

        Coolly leans out from behind the camera. Under the winter 
        duty jacket, Catherine is fit and toned. It is important 
        to Catherine to be viewed as professional, yet she cannot 
        shake an air of... perhaps sadness? Anger? It doesn t 
        weigh Catherine down. It is what drives her.

          Although perturbed that the higher ranking detective has 
          stepped in her way... Catherine keeps her tone respectful 
        to the senior detective...

                                            CATHERINE
                        Lieutenant... clear frame, please.

          Dismissing her, Dunn gestures to another detective, JERRY 
          MOLBECK, late twenties, African American. Molbeck is so 
          outstanding at his work and dutiful that a lot of 
          paperwork and busy work gets dumped on him by his 
          superiors...

                                          DUNN
                      Hey, Molbeck, come here.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Lieutenant Dunn... you re in the shot.

        Dunn continues ignoring Catherine, choosing to remain 
          oblivious to anything not of hisinterest. MOLBECK 
          reaches Dunn whochecks the proximity of the unit s 
            supervisor...                                                                                    3


          DETECTIVE CAPTAIN FRANK BISGAARD

          Captain Bisgaard, 40s, is the only person in this 
          basement wearing a suit, wrapped in a topcoat and a 
        scarf. He is angular, but handsome. As tough and 
          calculating a cop as he is a bureaucrat.


          CATHERINE, DUNN AND MOLBECK

        Even while assuming Bisgaard is out of earshot, Dunn 
        lowers his voice...

                                          DUNN
                      Don t bother pulling any finger or shoe 
                      prints out of any of this. The demo 
                      team s been all over here.

        Now... the following is with the tone of a hesitant and 
          respectful joke. None the less...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Yo... Lieutenant Badonkadonk.


          CAPTAIN BISGAARD

        Turns to Dunn, eyebrow cocked with a hint of a smirk... 


          CATHERINE, DUNN AND MOLBECK

        While Molbeck and a pair of uniformed cops stifle laughs, 
        Dunn, suppressing a smile, as well, slowly turns to 
          Catherine who shrugs, conveying,  Sorry, but...  then 
          gestures to the camera, then back to the crime scene, 
        then back to Dunn as if  ...you were in the way, here, 
        and you were ignoring me. 

        Dunn eyes over his shoulder to check on Bisgaard who has 
          returned his attention to the crime scene...

                                          DUNN
                      Don t get all crazy thorough over this 
                      one, Jensen.

          Catherine tenses at his condescending tone and words...

                                          DUNN (CONT D)
                      This s, more nlikely, goin nowhere. 
                      Any evidence s been compromised over 
                      all this time in here. We ain t getting 
                      anything out of this crackheadmummy.                                                                                     4


                                            CATHERINE
                      So, what, she s not worth our time 
                       cause she was just some crackhead
                      or...  cause it s a tough case that 
                      might reduce your incident to arrest 
                      ratio?

        Now this... he doesn t take as good natured. He turns and 
          approaches Catherine, subtly using his size in an attempt 
        to intimidate her, but Catherine stands her ground...

                                          DUNN
                      That is no homicide. That s just some 
                      homeless woman. If we open up that 
                      furnace, we re going to find she was 
                      living in it. Probably got locked in, 
                      tried to get out through the vents.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Her arms have been positioned over her 
                      chest.

                                          DUNN
                    By her. She was desperate to keep warm.

          Catherine considers. Bisgaard eavesdrops. He cocks his 
        head, awaiting Catherine s response. 

        She nods, shrugs as if about to buy in, until she eyes 
        the detective...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Get out of my shot... please.

          Bemused, Bisgaard approves of Catherine s response.

        Dunn holds his eyes on Catherine while giving Molbeck an 
        order.

                                          DUNN
                      Molbeck... we re through with this 
                      camera. Get it out of here.

          Catherine keeps her eyes forward, working to conceal how 
        angry Dunn has made her. After a couple of tense beats, 
        Dunn shakes his head, then slowly moves off. 

          Molbeck moves to the camera, then holds as if to convey 
        to Catherine that he doesn t want any trouble. She eyes 
        him, then steps aside. As Molbeck begins wrapping the 
          camera...

                                          MOLBECK
                      Whatwere youthinking?                                                                                    5


          Recalling Dunn s command to her, with derision...

                                            CATHERINE
                       Don t get all crazy thorough.  What s 
                      hethinking?

                                          MOLBECK
                      Where s taking him on going to get you? 
                      Huh?. Man, even Dodgeball s got rules.

          Incredulous, Catherine eyes Molbeck...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Rules? Why don t you tell herabout the 
                      rules?

          Molbeck looks to the victim. Told off, he picks up the 
          forensic camera and moves away from Catherine. Alone, she 
        looks back to the victim...


          CATHERINE S POV - THE VICTIM

        CAMERA inches toward the leathery skinned woman. 
          Bracelets, necklace and jewelry remain on her body. Arms, 
        eerily crossed. Hair, viciously butchered. Abused.


        LOW ANGLE - CATHERINE

        CAMERA RISES on her intense eyes, see more than just 
        police work. Her expression, deeper than just empathy. 

        She removes an iPhone from her pocket and doesn t even 
        bother to check over her shoulder as she frames up the 
        crime scene. Then... as if making a vow to the victim...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                       Don t get allcrazy thorough. 

        As the SOUND of the iPhone s clicking camera  SHUTTER  is 
          exaggerated as LOUD as a GUNSHOT and the FLASH FILLS THE 
          FRAME...


                                          END TEASER                                                                                    6


                                            ACT ONE



        CAMERA IS CLOSE ON the discovered corpse, as ifthe body 
        is still at the factory location in which she was 
            discovered...

                                            CATHERINE (O.S.)
                      Hard to imagine her ever being alive. 
                      Who was she?



          Catherine stands over the shoulder of MIA VOGEL, mid 30s, 
          a forensic pathologist, REVEALING the corpse has been 
          transferred to a modern forensic laboratory

                                          MIA
                      C mon, Cath, don t do that to me. 
                      Bisgaard is insisting all victim 
                      pathology go through Dunn.

        The women are good friends, respecting each other s 
          professionalism and focus at work and each other s 
          company outside of it. Both women wear latex gloves and 
          disposable surgical masks.

        Mia attempts to ease Catherine s tenacious expression by 
          changing the subject...

                                          MIA (CONT D)
                      Haley can t wait for you to sit for her 
                      tonight. You two are going to watch 
                       Barbieand the Three Musketeers. 

                                            CATHERINE
                      Again?
                                (sigh)
                      You d think they d make a  Barbie
                      versus Predator and Alien  just to ease 
                      the pain for dads and single 
                      girlfriends who get called  aunt. 

        Mia smiles and begins to move off...

                                          MIA
                      I m hoping this date, tonight, has more 
                      life in him than the men I autopsy, in 
                      here.

          Catherine detains her. She hasn t dropped the subject.                                                                                    7


                                            CATHERINE
                      Mia... I try to imagine her alive. Dunn 
                      won t even bother.

        Mia averts her eyes, knowing this is true...

                                          MIA
                      Adrian Zaleski. A mother. Two boys... 
                      back in Russia. Immigrated to Boston. 
                      Her DNA popped up on CMSIObecause she 
                      was arrested on prostitution charges 
                      five years ago. Been dead... about two 
                      years.

        Mia sighs, puzzled, while Catherine steps out from behind 
        Mia and leans down for a closer look...

                                          MIA (CONT D)
                    No external indication of cause of 
                      death. No gunshot, no knife wounds.

          Catherine reacts subtly, yet intensely, to the 
          possibility of abuse. Mia reaches to the corpse s hands.

                                          MIA (CONT D)
                      Her nails are cracked. She had been 
                      clawing at something.


          CORPSE S HANDS

        Mia gently lifts the hands, positioned across the body...

                                          MIA (CONT D)
                      Traces of nickel and cadmium are under 
                      her nails. A preliminary soil analysis 
                      indicates those elements are not 
                      present in the basement. She was, 
                      likely, murdered at another location.


          CATHERINE

        As CAMERA CONTINUES RISING toward her, eyes locked on 
        Adrian Zaleski smummified body...

                                                                                CUT TO:



          A CUSTODIAN wheels a janitor cart through the low light 
        of an area holding a dozen empty desks.                                                                                     8


        The unit s officers went home hours ago. A desk lamp 
        casts noir shadows upon Catherine, intently focused on 
        her computer.


          CATHERINE S POV - COMPUTER MONITOR

            A websitedisplays several photos of Egyptian royalty and 
          European nobles in a coffin prepared for burial. Each has 
        their arms positioned across their chest.


        CLOSER - CATHERINE

        A form approaches. She checks the identity of the person, 
        then quickly, but coolly, clicks the mouse...


        CLOSE - COMPUTER MONITOR

        The dead bodies and mummies give way to a .pdfsample 
        test exam for Boston detectives.


          CATHERINE S DESK

        The form stops at her desk REVEALING Bisgaard, carrying 
        his briefcase. He crooks his neck to check out the 
          website, then eyes her with approval.

                                            BISGAARD
                      When does that test come up?

                                            CATHERINE
                      June. I ll be ordering you around by 
                      August, Captain Bisgaard.

                                            BISGAARD
                      Don t stay too late. I ll give you that
                      order while I still can.

        She smiles her appreciation. This is not an inappropriate 
        moment or behavior on his part but, Bisgaard clearly has 
          a fondness for Catherine which she is aware of and does 
        not discourage. He moves off...

        Once he has entered the hallway, Catherine returns to the 
          mummies and bodies ready for burial website. She reacts 
            instinctively to a line of information...


        CLOSE - COMPUTER MONITOR

         X is an ancient symbol for change or transformation...                                                                                     9


        CLOSE - CATHERINE

          Scrolls until STARTLED by a BANG on an adjacent desk.


        WIDER

          Molbeck stands over a cardboard box holding female 
          personal effects. With a little Karloff...

                                          MOLBECK
                      The mummy s things.

          Annoyed he has insulted the victim, she corrects him...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Adrian Zaleski.

                                          MOLBECK
                      Her roommate thought she d gone back to 
                      Russia. Kept them all these years, in 
                      case she came back. Never even reported 
                      her as missing.

          Catherine is compelled to the box. As soon as she lifts 
        out a pair of trampy pumps, Molbeck takes them away...

                                          MOLBECK (CONT D)
                      Dunn wants all this marked and put in 
                      the evidence room.

                                            CATHERINE
                      I ll do it. Go  head. See your wife. 
                      It s no problem for me. I have no life.

          Molbeck considers, then takes her up on the offer...

                                          MOLBECK
                      You say that like you have no choice.

          Molbeck heads out, leaving Catherine alone in the police 
          bullpen. She reaches into the box and removes the items, 
        taking a moment to study them, searching for any possible 
          insight into the victim.

          A small hand purse; inside, two packs of Crown Skinless 
          condoms and a small pepper spray. A tampon.

          Catherine picks up her iPhone off the desk and takes a 
        photo of the purse and its contents. Likewise, the shoes. 
        She removes a framed 4 X 6 snapshot of two boys, one 
        eight and one ten, flash happy posed mischievous smiles 
        of sporadic teeth under a hard camera flash.                                                                                     10


        They are in pajamas, ready for bed in a bedroom with 
          posters of Russian hockey and soccer players.


        LOW LEVEL - CATHERINE

        CAMERA RISES... This photo effects her... from deep 
          within. At this moment she is not a homicide detective 
          considering the case... it is as if looking into her past 
        and considering an altogether different suspect.

                                                                                CUT TO:



        The apartment is dark until the front door opens and 
          Catherine enters. She drops her keys on a table but 
          doesn t bother removing her coat as she proceeds directly 
        to a desk, turns on a lamp, and sits.

          Catherine pulls open the bottom drawer and reaches in for 
        a file she s kept, wrapped with a rubber band...


        CLOSE - FILE

        CAMERA IS TIGHT as the cover opens and PASSES LENS... 
          REVEALING a newspaper photograph of THOMAS SCHAEFFER, 
        30s. Intellectually handsome, his photo reflects an 
          awkwardness with posing or perhaps any focus on himself.

        She finds a 30 page report:  CORRELATIONS OF CHILD ABUSE, 
        ADULT TORTURE AND SERIAL KILLINGS  by Thomas Schaeffer, 
        PhD.


          CATHERINE

        Does not read the report so much as considers its author.


        WIDE

        CAMERA REVEALS the wall Catherine sits before is covered, 
        floor to ceiling and wall to wall, with photographs; 
        crime scenes, magazine photos, mug shots. Only one is 
          framed. It is a middle aged man, pleasant, in v neck 
          sweater. The frame hangs directly over her desk.

                                          THOMAS (V.O.)
                      I have an IQof 142.

                                                                                CUT TO:                                                                                    11



        CAMERA IS LOW... INCHING UP ON THOMAS SCHAEFFER, 30s, 
          speaking outwards while lit by a dim backlight. The sense 
        of a confession. An initial assumption that he is 
          speaking of himself...

                                          THOMAS
                      I ve always been a loner, even though I 
                      had a normal childhood. I committed my 
                      first murder at eighteen but, wouldn t 
                      kill again for another nine years.

        Thomas stands... CAMERA FOLLOWS as he slowly steps into a 
          projected light, an image wrapping over his face...


          REVERSE - CLASSROOM

        In a tiered lecture room, students are lit by the spill 
        of their laptops. Although addressing upper level psych 
          majors, Thomas  tone has the effect of a campfire story.

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                    At age thirty, I live alone... in a 
                      Milwaukee apartment near my job at the 
                      Ambrosia Chocolate factory...


          CLASSROOM

        Thomas stands before a Powerpointprojected image of 
          Jeffery Dahmerappearing in a suit at his trial.

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      You d find my apartment impersonal...

        The next image is of Dahmer sbland kitchen apartment...


          CLASSROOM SEATS

        In the back, a door opens. Catherine enters, checks to 
        make certain she is in the right room, and takes a seat.


        THOMAS

        Notes her entrance and, mistaking her for a late student, 
          flashes a disapproving expression while...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                    If you looked in the fridge... what 
                      would you find?                                                                                    12


        The next image is an FBI photo of Dahmer sopen 
            refrigerator. Inside, a severed head is wrapped in a 
        cloth. Portions of a brain sit in clear Tupperware. The 
        class reacts with sickened GROANS.

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Here s a hint, it is nota brain.

        The class reacts, incredulous, trying to see it as 
          anything other than a brain....

                                            CATHERINE
                      It s comfort food.

        The class LAUGHS at the seemingly inappropriate answer, 
        but Thomas looks up toward Catherine, impressed.

                                          THOMAS
                        Dahmercraved intimacy. He atehis 
                      victims so they would become a part of 
                      him. Obviously, to... most of us... 
                      this is not normal. To Dahmer... it
                      made total sense. And so, in order to 
                      understand and capture an antisocial 
                      personality disorder...


          CATHERINE

        Leans forward, hanging on Thomas  every word...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      The forensic psychologist must enter
                      into the subject s logic.


        THE CLASSROOM

        Thomas is not simply lecturing. He is confessing...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      This... can create quite a rush. The 
                      way field generals become so obsessed 
                      with their enemies that they become 
                      them in heart and soul in order to 
                      defeat them...

        Thomas steps out from behind the podium...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      This is very dangerous. This logic, 
                      these minds, are dark... monstrous... 
                                          (MORE)                                                                                    13

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      forests to explore. You can get lost... 
                      and never return. 

                                                                                CUT TO:



          Catherine is waiting in a crowded hallway, holding a 
        man s winter coat over her arm. She spots Thomas 
          approaching and moves toward him...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Doctor Schaeffer?

                                          THOMAS
                      You were late to class.

                                            CATHERINE
                      I m not a student, I m homicide 
                      detective Catherine Jensen and I could 
                      use counsel on an investigation.

                                          THOMAS
                      I know Captain Bisgaard didn t send 
                      you.

                                            CATHERINE
                      I came here on my own. I ve been an 
                      admirer of your research for some time.

          Thomas  reaction is puzzled as if never having heard this 
          before. Like some sort of pusher... Catherine opens the 
            investigation file displaying the crime scene photos of 
        Adrian Zaleski smummified body in the factory. And as 
        much as Thomas wishes to walk away... he eyes the images.

                                          THOMAS
                    He cuts their hair to separate the 
                      victims from their identity.

        Then, as if realizing he s being sucked in... Thomas 
        moves off. Catherine follows...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Body was found in a furnace ventilator 
                      shaft in the basement of that Boston 
                        manufacturing factory. Pathology 
                        determined... dead two years.

        As he reaches his office, Catherine steps in front of 
        him. Thomas is taken aback, a bit alarmed even. He 
          focuses hard upon her, seemingly analyzing Catherine as 
        her pitch ramps to an even faster pace...                                                                                    14


                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      Her arms were displayed this way...

          Catherine indicates the file photo, but Thomas  eyes 
          continue to study her, subtly looking her up and down. 
        It s very unnerving and she must finally stop to ask...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      Are you profiling me?

        Thomas continues looking at her, curious...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      You re looking at me, like... you must 
                    be profiling me. Right now.

                                          THOMAS
                      No, I m wondering... how did you get my 
                      coat?

          Catherine is thrown off, then recalls...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Oh... you left it... in your class. I 
                      just... I brought it to you.

        She extends his coat along with the file, which he is 
          oblivious to having taken.

                                          THOMAS
                      Oh! Thank you! Sorry, I don t work with 
                      the police anymore.

        And with that, Thomas slips into his office and shuts the 
        door. She holds, considers knocking on the office door, 
        but realizing he, at least has taken the files... smiles 
        to herself, then starts off down the hallway...

          OVERLAPPING... a six year old girl SCREAMS and CRIES...

                                          HALEY (V.O.)
                      MOM! MOMMY!



          Catherine runs into a young girl s room. HALEY, Mia s 
          daughter, has awakened from a nightmare. Catherine sits 
        on the bed and holds the girl, comforting her...

                                            CATHERINE
                      It s okay, Haley. It s okay. It s Cath. 
                      You re okay. Your mommy s on her way 
                      home. You just had a bad dream.                                                                                    15


          Catherine rocks the girl, who settles...

                                          HALEY
                      Cath... didyou have nightmares about 
                      monsters when you were little?

        How does Catherine admit to a young girl, to anyone, that 
        her monsters lived not only in her nightmares...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Everyone has dreams about monsters when 
                      they re little, but you know what I 
                      did... when monsters came into my 
                      dreams? I would try to scare them!

        Haley likes that idea, laughs a bit...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      Scream and yell until they are afraid 
                      you might hurt them! Then they go 
                      away... and leave you alone.
                              (a whisper)
                      You have to be worse than them.

        In the doorway, Mia has returned from her date. Touched 
        by her daughter and Catherine, Mia watches the two...

                                          MIA
                      You ll make a very good mom.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Thought you were about to say I d make 
                      a very good monster.

        Mia smiles, then shakes her head at the joke,  no way.  
          Catherine looks back to Haley who, comforted, has closed 
        her eyes. As Catherine leans over and kisses the little 
        girl on the forehead...

                                                                                CUT TO:



        Third grade math homework FILLS THE FRAME. Ten problems 
        adding a one digit number to a two digit number.


        WIDER

        Thomas is at his cluttered desk, having cleared room for 
        his 9 year old son, JOHN, to do his homework.                                                                                    16


                                          THOMAS
                      Whoa. Whoa... we just did 87 + 6 in the 
                      other column only now this is 6 + 87. 
                      See? It s the same answer.

        Thomas takes the pencil, but discovers it has no eraser. 
        He sighs, then digs through the piles on his desk...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Eraser... eraser... where d you go?

        Thomas moves books and files in search of an eraser. The 
        word  HOMICIDE  appears like a summoning beacon on the 
        file Catherine slipped him earlier in the day. Thomas 
          hesitates... then reaches for the file...

                                          JOHN
                      There s one!

        Thomas is snapped out of it, finds the pencil with an 
        eraser then hands it to his son. As John erases his 
          answer, Thomas returns to the file, peeking at the corner 
        like a poker player checking his hole cards...


          THOMAS  POV - FILE PHOTOS

        Adrian Zaleski smummified body... hair butchered... 


        THOMAS

        The hook takes hold as he pulls the file from beneath the 
          clutter. He checks John s focus, then, seeing the boy is 
          focused on his homework, Thomas opens the file...

                                                                                CUT TO:



          Catherine pulls the covers off her bed and lays down. She 
          scrolls through her Smartphonedisplaying the same images 
        from the Zaleskifile Thomas is reading.

        Her PHONE VIBRATES. She checks it...


        INSERT - CATHERINE S PHONE

        A text message...  Why did you lie? 



        Thomas is alone at his desk. His phone VIBRATES. He 
          answers with a lowered voice. The file is out of sight. 
        He s seen all that he needs at this time...

                                            CATHERINE
                      I didn t lie. I have read all your case 
                      studies and reports.

        Thomas suppresses a smile... before correcting her...

                                          THOMAS
                      Thisis notyour case.

                                            CATHERINE
                      So, you didlook at the file? Why are 
                      her arms crossed like that?

                                          THOMAS
                      It s a good question but... not the 
                      most important to ask.

                                            CATHERINE
                      What is?

        After a silence...

                                          THOMAS
                      Where are the others?                                                                                    18


        As CAMERA PUSHES IN ON Catherine s shock...

                                                                                CUT TO:



        On the phone with Thomas, Catherine is now pacing and 
          agitated in her bedroom...

                                            CATHERINE
                    We swept the whole furnace and the 
                      surrounding area. There were no other 
                      bodies...

        Thomas listens to Catherine, slightly shaking his head 
          until... his office DOORKNOB twists...

          Startled, Thomas suddenly hangs up. His wife, BENEDICTE, 
          enters. She is not being bossy, just knows he will work 
        all night if not encouraged to stop.

                                            BENEDICTE
                      Bed?

        He looks to Benedicte, loving her very much, and nods.



          Catherine re-dials but, receives only his voice mail. As 
        she throws her phone down, hard, on the mattress...                                                                                    19



          A flashlight beam splits the total darkness of the    
          factory basement to find the yellow plastic police tape 
          crossing the entrance to the furnace area. Catherine 
        ENTERS FRAME and ducks beneath the ribbon. She raises her 
        iPhone and scrolls through several images and documents 
        before landing on a blueprint of the basement area. 

        O.S... A CRACK of WOOD... FOOTSTEPS APPROACH. She turns 
        off her flashlight and carefully moves toward the 
          location of the sound...   


          CATHERINE S POV - A SILHOUETTED FORM

        Enters the area and holds... breath exhaust visible. The 
        form moves to the furnace, tugs on the door...


          CATHERINE

          Alarmed... reaches for her gun. Unhooks the holster 
        strap. CAMERA PUSHES IN as she draws her weapon and, 
        behind cover, clicks on the flashlight!


          FACTORY

        Thomas is REVEALED in the beam. Catherine approaches, 
          weapons remaining drawn on him...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Schaeffer?! What are you doing?

        Thomas is excited, buzzed, to be involved in the 
          exploration of this killer. The following use of  admirer 
        of my work,  should play as a personal running joke 
          between them and not like members at a WGAmeeting.

                                          THOMAS
                    If you really werean admirer of my 
                      work, Detective... then, you d know... 
                      although each killer is different, 
                      after years of experience and 
                      research... common axioms have been 
                        established, rules, to all of them. The 
                      first...                                                                                    21


                                            CATHERINE
                      They don t stop killing until they re 
                      captured or die.

                                          THOMAS
                      Second... they keep body parts as 
                      trophies or keep the victims  corpse 
                      close so they can return to experience 
                      the arousal of the murder.

        She holsters her weapon and moves to him...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Adrian Zaleski... thisvent... as a 
                      hiding place, it sucked. Hard to get 
                      into and revisit. Have to climb up, 
                      crawl inside. He rushed this hiding 
                      place. To me, this shows he was 
                        inexperienced. She was his first. If he 
                      kept her here, the others are here, 
                      too. Hidden but, ground level.

        She hands him her iPhone displaying the factory 
          blueprints. He looks at it for a few moments, then to 
          Catherine. Thomas gestures for her to follow...



        Guided by their flashlights, Thomas leads Catherine into 
        an area with a low ceiling and arched coal storage bins 
        that have been bricked up. 

        From the perspiration and dirt on his clothes and hands, 
          they ve been down here awhile yet, he remains a man 
          possessed. Thomas gets down on his hands and knees and 
        pushes against a few bricks. They do not budge. He 
          proceeds to the next bricked in bin and presses against 
        it. Nothing.

                                            CATHERINE
                    We can cover more area, more quickly, 
                    if we get a crime scene unit down here.

        He doesn t respond while crawling on his hands and knees 
        on the damp mossy floor to the next bin.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                    Or we can come back with a ground 
                      penetrating radar system?

        He moves to the next archway. In the flashlight beam he  
        notes that there is no mortar around the bricks. He 
        pushes a brick...                                                                                     22


        with a hollow GRIND of BRICK ON BRICK... the brick moves! 
        Thomas looks back to Catherine. She moves to him and is 
        down on her knees beside him.

        He continues to push the brick all the way through, into 
        the storage area. He pushes another and another, creating 
        a foot square opening. She moves to him and is down on 
        her knees beside him...

        CAMERA CRAWLS IN OVER their shoulders... and INTO THE GAP 
        in the board... REVEALING the dark cold interior. 
          Catherine places her flashlight in the gap... 

        Thomas and Catherine quickly cover their mouth and noses. 
        Thomas wretches, turns away from the storage bin holding 
        four dead bodies in various states of decay. Arms 
          crossed. Hair butchered. 

                                                                                CUT TO:



        The area is now active. Uniformed officers. Medical 
          examiners. Demolition crewmen, recruited to help out in 
        the bright work lights.

        Not officially on the case, Thomas has left the scene as 
        to not be seen by the detectives. 

        Dunn is annoyed with Catherine for having disregarded his 
        orders and is also humiliated by his subordinate 
          discovering such a huge case by doing so.


        MIA

          Supervising collection of trace evidence at the crime 
        scene, she moves to Catherine...

                                          MIA
                      Victim on the end... dead just five 
                      weeks.

        Dunn sees Mia talking to Catherine and moves directly to 
        them. Catherine defers, she is not participating in a 
          political power grab. She wants to stop a killer.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Mia... direct any information to 
                      Lieutenant Dunn. He s in charge.                                                                                    23


        CAPTAN BISGAARD

          Marches through the factory, angry, approaching Dunn, Mia 
        and Catherine, his eyes locked on Catherine... 

                                            BISGAARD
                      Don t you ever go behind my back again.

          Catherine is a strong fearless person... but she is 
          shaking at this moment and sincerely contrite...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Yes, sir. I m sorry, Captain Bisgaard.

                                          DUNN
                      The bodies were discovered over here.

          Bisgaard reacts to Dunn, incredulous. Dunn takes a step 
        in the direction of the coal bins but, Bisgaard doesn t 
          follow. The captain knows the answer to the following...

                                            BISGAARD
                      Did you discover the bodies, Lieutenant 
                      Dunn?

                                          DUNN
                      No, Captain. Detective Jensen.

                                            BISGAARD
                      Then, Detective Jensen can show me 
                      where shediscovered the bodies, since 
                      she is now the officer in charge of 
                      this investigation.

          Catherine eyes Mia, who suppresses a smile of pride. 
          Molbeck eyes Dunn who glares at Bisgaard. The captain 
        moves to Catherine...

                                            BISGAARD (CONT D)
                      From here on out, every time this 
                      psycho kills someone and isn t 
                      caught... you re going to feel 
                        responsible. Some reward, huh, 
                      Detective?

          Bisgaard eyes Catherine who nods her understanding of the 
          increased responsibility. As Bisgaard walks away...

                                                                                CUT TO:                                                                                    24



        A cold decaying windowless assembly plant with metal 
          conical lamps cast dim overhead circles of light upon the 
        moss dotted floor. Three 4 X 8  sheets of plywood appear 
        to cover a small work pit.

        O.S., a car approaches; headlights off. With a startle, 
        the sectional garage door is lifted by Eric Krogh, 
          REVEALING Marlene s ToyotaEcho just outside. He climbs 
        back into the car and rolls it into the forgotten 
          assembly plant.

                                                                        JUMP CUT TO:


          MARLENE S BACKPACK

        Eric unzips it. He pulls out her text books. Flips 
          through, sincerely curious and yet, angered. He throws 
        them on the cold cement floor with a derisive SMACK.

        He finds her Medical Assistant mid term, checks it, then 
        sets it aside, carefully...


        THE TRUNK

          POPS... REVEALING Marlene, groggy and dazed but fighting 
        for her survival. Duct tape has been wrapped around her 
        head and mouth. Her arms are taped behind her at the 
          elbows. As he reaches in and lifts her by the biceps. As 
        she SCREAMS with pain...

                                                                                CUT TO:



        Crime scene photos of the most recently discovered 
          victims in the electroplating factory flip past screen on 
          a laptop monitor. These are gruesome and alarming, 
          mummified and decaying expressions frozen in horror.

          Catherine is locked on the images while Thomas paces, 
            frustrated...

                                          THOMAS
                      There s no physical pattern. A blonde. 
                    An African American. Asian. An addict. 
                      Prostitute. A housewife...                                                                                    25


                                            CATHERINE
                      Addict? Housewife? How do you know? We 
                      haven t I.D dany of the bodies.

          Scrolling through the images, he explains each...

                                          THOMAS
                      Addict... corrosive effects of 
                      methamphetamine on the teeth, here... 
                      Street walker... syphilitic ulcers and 
                      human papilloma virus present on this 
                      one... Housewife... wedding ring and 
                      birthstone bracelet.

                                            CATHERINE
                      This tab brings up all reported missing 
                      females over the last six weeks in 
                      Suffolk, Norfolk, Plymouth, Middlesex 
                      and Essex counties...

        Thomas begins scrolling through them with his finger... 
          SCROLL... SCROLL... SCROLL...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      I talked to Bisgaard, by the way. He s 
                      signed off on you joining the 
                        investigation as a consultant.

        Thomas eyes her, doubtful. 

                                          THOMAS
                      And with that, admirer of my work... 
                      allow me to point out the one trait 
                      found in everyserial killer... they 
                      are accomplished liars.

        He continues scrolling, dodging a response to officially 
        join the investigation...

                                            CATHERINE
                      What s your hesitation with signing on? 
                      What s your problem with Bisgaard?

                                          THOMAS
                      Bisgaard s problem is with me. My 
                      problem... is with me, too.

        He continues scrolling until Catherine reacts to the 
          missing person on the monitor and quickly reaches out to 
        grab his hand and stop him...

                                            CATHERINE
                      WAIT! THERE!                                                                                    26


          COMPUTER MONITOR

          LAKASHA WATKINS smiles in what appears to be a senior 
        class photo from a few years ago. Her hair is pulled back 
        behind her ears displaying her earrings and jewelry.


        THOMAS AND CATHERINE

        He awkwardly removes his hand from the laptop screen as 
          Catherine operates and returns to a crime scene 
          photograph of one of the recently discovered victims.


          COMPUTER MONITOR

          Catherine spreads her thumb and index finger enlarging 
        the image at the area of the earlobe. The victim is 
          wearing an identical earring.

                                            CATHERINE (O.S) (CONT D)
                      Same earring. LakashaWatkins.


          CATHERINE AND THOMAS

        The office door suddenly opens. Benedicte enters carrying 
          a plastic storage box. Without question, everything going 
        on in the office was professional, yet, Thomas tenses, as 
        if caught doing something he was not suppose to be.

          Benedicte is surprised by the presence of another person 
        in the office other than Thomas, but does not react with 
          suspicion because the person is an attractive woman.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      Hello. I m Catherine.

                                            BENEDICTE
                      Benedicte.

                                            CATHERINE
                      What a great name.

        The two women smile before Catherine collects some files 
        and paperwork. Then, to Thomas...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      I ll check out LakashaWatkins.

        Thomas sheepishly nods while Catherine exits, smiling as 
        she passes his wife. Benedicte turns and joking...                                                                                    27


                                            BENEDICTE
                      How nice that you re so secure with our 
                      marriage that you feel you can bring 
                      all your  other women  into the house 
                      right under my nose.

        Thomas smiles... but it fades quickly.

                                          THOMAS
                      She s a homicide detective on a serial 
                      killer investigation. Works for 
                      Bisgaard. Wants my help.

          Benedicte is taken aback, caught off guard...

                                            BENEDICTE
                      Oh... In that case, I d prefer she was 
                      the  other woman. 

                                          THOMAS
                      Just this one case. It won t be like 
                      the last time.

        She moves to him, holds him, not scolding but concerned 
        and reminding...

                                            BENEDICTE
                       The last time ... I almost lost you.
                                (beat)
                      You almost lost yourself.

        As he wraps his arms around her... holds her...



          A green Nitrile surgical examination glove clutches a 
          handful of hair attached to Marlene s scalp.

        A pair of first responder stainless steel surgical 
          scissors ENTERS FRAME. It cleaves Marlene s hair at a 
          brutish angle. Duct tape across her mouth, greasy rope 
        across her chest, hair falls upon her face. Eric s hand 
        grabs another swath of hair and PULLS! She SCREAMS...


        LOW ANGLE - ERIC

        raises a tube of bright red lipstick INTO FRAME and 
        twists the base. He smells, then tastes the wax and oils.                                                                                    28


          MARLENE AND ERIC

        The lipstick touches her lips. Eric tries placing it on 
        her properly, but Marlene resists, pursing her lips 
          inward. The make-up bleeds and smears. Her eye-liner 
          streaks from her tears and perspiration.

        Eric s hand grips across her face then, twists, grinds, 
          rubbing in the make up. She whips her head from side to 
        side. Tries to bite him. SCREAMS! CRIES!

        ERIC

        Draws his hand up to his face, clutching it in the same 
        manner that he just held Marlene. He inhales deep, then 
        licks his palm, subtlytrembling with arousal. He pulls 
        his hand away. Then, so sweet and intended without 
          menace, Eric delivers a positive compliment... 

                                          ERIC
                      I like it when you cry.


        WIDE

          Marlene is naked, tied to a chair. Eric moves from her to 
        the center of the assembly plant. He picks up one of the 
          plywood boards and slides it aside revealing a 3 x 6 foot 
        pit with, what appears to be, an open coffin inside.

                                          ERIC (CONT D)
                      But, don t cry. This is a happy story 
                      with a happy ending. I m changing your 
                      life.

        He suddenly, violently,grabs Marlene s head and pulls 
        her out of the chair. He drags Marlene, by her hair 
        across the floor and throws her into the pit.


        THE PIT

        Eric leaps inside and pushes Marlene down into the coffin 
        as he reaches up, grabs the lid and SLAMS IT DOWN...

                                                                                CUT TO:



        Urgent and focused, Catherine establishes the conference 
        room as a headquarters. A flow chart displays crime scene 
          photos. Maps are circled at the location of the 
          electroplating factory. Molbeck sets up some computers.                                                                                    29


                                            CATHERINE
                      Jerry... what s the status on locating 
                      factories that used cadmium and lead?

                                          MOLBECK
                      I m on it. It s slow going because 
                      factories want to hide that info from 
                      EPA-types.

          Bisgaard arrives for work, briefcase in hand, coat over 
        his arm. He steps inside, pleased with the progress.

                                            BISGAARD
                      Looks good. I m thinking you should 
                      bring a forensic psychologist on board.

          Catherine remains composed but is relieved that the chief 
        has broached the subject. As she is about to respond...

                                            BISGAARD (CONT D)
                      Call Russ Ketteringhamat MIT.

          Although nervous, Catherine projects confidence...

                                            CATHERINE
                      I d like to bring on Thomas Schaeffer.

          Bisgaard holds, pissed. Molbeck looks up, shocked, and 
        checks Bisgaard s reaction.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      Schaeffer was responsible for my 
                      discovery of the bodies in the factory.

                                            BISGAARD
                      Thomas Schaeffer can get in too far. 
                      Loses himself. It causes mistakes... 
                      people get hurt.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Look... sir... I ve read about the last 
                        investigation that you contracted him. 
                      He... you... together... solved it.

          Unbeknownst to Bisgaard, Thomas appears in the doorway 
        with a briefcase, ready for work. Catherine tenses...

                                            BISGAARD
                    If you ve read about that case, then 
                      what you know is that there were six 
                      murders in Suffolk county. The killer 
                      numbered the victims.                                                                                    30


                                            CATHERINE
                      With a Roman numeral. One through six, 
                    on the left hand.

                                            BISGAARD
                      Schaeffer wrote up a profile, explained 
                      the reason for the numbers on the 
                      hand... motive for the killer... down 
                    to the area of Boston where he lived. 
                      But, there were some leaps in his 
                      profile. Loose ends. Schaeffer believed 
                    he understood the killer; was certain. 
                      I went with him and it did lead to 
                      trace evidence which led to an arrest. 
                      Jared Lee Hayward.

                                          THOMAS
                      Hanged himself in his cell.

          Bisgaard turns and sees Thomas in the doorway. Bisgaard 
        looks back at Catherine, annoyed and embarrassed.

                                            BISGAARD
                      So, what, you weren t asking me, you 
                      were telling me?

                                          THOMAS
                      You mean you haven t talked to him?

                                            CATHERINE
                      The murders stopped. And that s what 
                      we re after.

                                            BISGAARD
                      What you don t know... what the press 
                      never got a hold of... is that three 
                      months later FBI office in Philly
                      alerted us about a murder in Trenton.
                                (beat)
                      Roman numeral seven cut into the 
                      victim s left hand.

          Bisgaard eyes Thomas who looks to the floor...

                                            BISGAARD (CONT D)
                    It never happened again.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Serial killers just don t decide to 
                      stop. It had to be a copycat.

                                            BISGAARD
                      We ll never know.                                                                                    31


                                          THOMAS
                    No one took that harder than me, Frank.

          Catherine steps forward... passionate but, respectful...

                                            CATHERINE
                      With respect, sir... I don t want to be 
                      out of line... we re all after the same 
                      thing. I believe that with all of us... 
                    we get that fast and we get it right.

          Bisgaard eyes her, looks to Thomas. He looks back to 
          Catherine and offers a begrudging nod of approval before 
          exiting the conference room without a word to Thomas...

                                                                        CUT TO BLACK:



          A metal lid is removed REVEALING a six inch hole. The 
          assembly plant pendant lamps flood into the coffin...


          MARLENE

        Gulps at the fresh air flowing into the box...


          MARLENE S POV - HOLE

        Eric looks into the hole. With a child-like sincerity...

                                          ERIC
                      Being afraid is from not knowing what s 
                      going to happen... so, don t be afraid. 
                    We both know what s going to happen. 
                      Death... makes everything equal.
                              (cold and lifeless)
                      Now... do like I said.


          MARLENE

          SOBBING... she crosses her arms like the previously 
          discovered victims. After a moment, the lid covers the 
        hole. MARLENE S SCREAM ECHOES as FRAME RETURNS TO BLACK.

                                          END ACT TWO                                                                                    32


                                          ACT THREE



          Catherine and Thomas stand at a modest income apartment 
          doorway at the top of a second floor landing. The door is 
        marked  Watkins.  JAMES WATKINS, early 40s, steps up upon 
        the landing from the stairs. He appears heartbroken and 
          especially rattled as the two detectives place latex 
        gloves over their hands.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Mr. Watkins... maybe it s best I take a 
                      look inside your daughter s apartment, 
                      first.



        The door opens on the single apartment. Catherine has an 
          initial peek inside, but there is nothing visibly 
          jarring. No signs of violence. The three enter.

        Mr. Watkins is overcome with emotion. He tries remaining 
          composed but, Catherine must help him to a chair. Thomas 
          certainly is empathetic with the father, however, he 
          studies him, as if writing a profile.

          Catherine moves to the father, comforting...

                                          JAMES WATKINS
                      I m sorry. I m sorry. I told myself I 
                      wouldn t cry comin here.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Mr. Watkins... cry all you need. I 
                      can t even imagine how you feel... but 
                    to find who did this... I have to ask 
                      you some questions about Lakasha.

          Watkins nods, understands...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      When was the last time you saw her?

                                          JAMES WATKINS
                      Six weeks ago. Called; nothing. Came 
                      here; knocked. Saw her car was gone. 
                      After a week I got worried it might be 
                      Michael and called you. The police.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Michael?                                                                                    33


                                          JAMES WATKINS
                      I d never call him her husband. 
                      Husbands don t hit their wives. She d 
                      tell me it was her fault. But, then, 
                      she just up and left him. I got her 
                      this place and a little used blue Ford 
                    to help turn it around. And she was... 
                      She really was turning it around...

        Thomas reacts, then without excusing himself or giving a 
          reason, turns and exits toward the bedroom hallway...



        Thomas opens LakashaWatkins  bedroom door. He doesn t 
        just  have a look around,  Thomas imagines this as his
        room. He opens the closet and flips through the clothes, 
          bordering on inappropriate. He spots an iPod in a player. 



        As Catherine questions Mr. Watkins...  Fly  by Nicki
          Minajand RhiannaBLASTS from the BEDROOM. They pause, 
          anticipating it will turn off, however... it continues.



          Thomas s manner is contrary to the music. He paces with a 
        five page legal document in his hand. Catherine enters 
        and turns off the iPod...

                                          THOMAS
                      Her divorce settlement. The top sheet s 
                      been torn off. Angry. He did it. He s 
                      been in this room.

          Catherine is shocked. She eyes the sheet, listens...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      When we find where he lives or kills 
                      them... this page will be there. So 
                      will other rewards, trophies, all 
                      belonging to the other victims.

          Catherine reacts, uncertain, as if  how do you know? 

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Lakashawas trying to improve her life. 
                      Her dad just said she left an abusive 
                      husband.                                                                                    34


        He points to the bag of clothes in the closet...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Clothes to Goodwill. Her iPod is loaded 
                      with nothing but motivational and 
                      spiritual music. Her life was in 
                      transition.

                                            CATHERINE
                      The crossed arms... it was used as a 
                      symbol of transition to another  life. 

                                          THOMAS
                      That s the pattern. Not physical. 
                      Internal. His victims were all trying 
                    to improve themselves. Adrian sent 
                      money home to Russia. LakashaWatkins 
                      divorced her abusive husband. We ll 
                      find all of them were trying to make a 
                      better life. 
                                (beat)
                    He must kill them... because he cannot
                      improve his life. He can t get ahead. 
                      He s... too, whatever, ugly? Stupid? No 
                      social skills? He has no control over 
                      this. He cannot improve hislife... so, 
                    he won t allow them to improve theirs. 
                    In fact, he humiliates them for trying.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Works at a job he feels is menial.

                                          THOMAS
                      Right, so, he doesn t make much money. 
                      They re not attracted to him... so his 
                      job... lets them trust him or, makes 
                      him not a threat. An invisible person. 
                      They ve seen him, before. Are familiar 
                      with him. That s why she let him in. A 
                      uniform? Repairman? Delivery person? 
                      It s a job where he can come across, 
                      has access to, women in transition.

          Catherine is awed by him, yet... she has questions...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Thomas... you got all that just from 
                      being in her room?

        He appears uncomfortable... gauges their connection...                                                                                    35


                                          THOMAS
                      I can feel it... the level of fear in 
                      the moment Lakasharealized that the 
                      person she let in here, that she 
                      thought she knew... was a lie. He gets 
                      off on thatmoment... the second he s 
                      actually transforming another life... 
                      and she knows it, too. That she s about 
                    to die.

        He looks to her... knowingly.

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Have you ever trusted anyone who turned 
                      out to be not what you believed?

        The question rattles her. Without answering, she exits 
        the room. As he looks into a mirror on the vanity...

                                                                                CUT TO:



          Projected images of houses and apartments SCROLL and are 
          positioned over a map of the Boston area.

                                          MOLBECK
                      Two facilities in Boston have used 
                      Nickel Cadmium. A battery factory down 
                    in Bristol still makes re-chargeables
                      and an abandoned, assembly plant that 
                      was a sub-contractor in manufacturing 
                      black and white T.V. tubes.
                                (beat)
                        Thatassembly plant is... a mile from 
                      the factory where we found the bodies.

                                                                        CUT TO BLACK:



        A hole opens within the BLACK FRAME. Eric s eyes appear 
        in the circle as he checks down the tube into the coffin.

        He opens a can of FancyFeastcat food and taps it against 
        the lip of the hole, spilling the contents down the pipe.



          Catherine drives while she and Thomas scan the area. He 
          consults the vehicle s GPS.

                                          THOMAS
                      GPSsays it s here.



        Eric drops the empty FancyFeastcan into the hole. O.S., 
          a near-distant CAR ENGINE CUTS OUT. Eric holds, listens.



          Catherine charges inside.

                                            CATHERINE
                      BOSTON POLICE OFFICERS! I AM ARMED!

        The FAINT SCREAMS are hard to pinpoint. She and Thomas 
        look everywhere, frantic. The rafters. Storage units.

        Thomas finally looks to the ground and considers the 
        three plywood boards. He moves one aside and discovers 
        the coffin in the hidden pit.

                                          THOMAS
                      CATHERINE!

        The detective hustles over and kicks aside the boards. 
        She jumps into the pit and finds the coffin secured with 
          a Master key lock. Thomas climbs down into the pit with 
          Catherine as she holsters her gun and hurriedly removes a 
        pick and tension rod from a small kit in her coat. 

        Thomas screws off and removes the lid. The odor is 
            overwhelming, but both keep it together. 

                                            CATHERINE
                      Hang on. Boston police. We ll have you 
                      out in a second.

          Catherine works the lock and in a moment, picks it open.

          Catherine helps Marlene out of the coffin, terrified and 
          looking around for Eric. Thomas wraps his coat over her.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      No. No. You re safe. You re safe.
                              (to Thomas)
                      Take her out to the car. There s a 
                      blanket in the trunk. Radio Molbeck 
                      that we need EMTs.

                                          THOMAS
                      I can t leave you alone here...

        She draws her pistol and eyes him...

                                            CATHERINE
                      I m not alone.

        Thomas nods, takes Catherine s radio, and starts toward 
        the assembly plant door with Marlene.                                                                                     38


          Catherine looks into the coffin. Amongst the vomit, 
        feces, and cat food tins, the roof of the coffin has been 
          scratched by multiple victims.


        THOMAS & MARLENE

        Move through the obstacles of clutter toward the door. 
        With a shock... Eric suddenly appears BEHIND THEM! Thomas 
        never sees it coming or gets a look at Eric as the killer 
        clubs Thomaswho falls, unconscious, to the ground. 

            Concurrently, Marlene nearly loses consciousness with 
        fear. She runs, escapes, out the open door.


          CATHERINE

        Holds in the pit... weapon ready. Like his attack on 
          Thomas, Eric charges FROM BEHINDCatherine and knocks her 
        down, face first, into the coffin. 


          CATHERINE S GUN

        Falls into the coffin near her knees...


        IN THE COFFIN

          Catherine is face down in the grime, unable to turn 
        around onto her back or reach her gun. The LID SLAMS! 
          Catherine bangs on the sides. SCREAMS; terrified!


        ERIC

        Finds the Master lock and loops it through the hasp. As 
        he tries to lock it, the pin will not engage.

                                          ERIC
                      MARLENE!

          Rushed, Eric settles for the lock looped through the 
        hasp. Catherine cannot get out. He climbs out of the pit 
        and races off toward the door.



        Thomas regains consciousness. Groggy, he rises to his 
        elbows as he orientates himself. O.S., He HEARS 
          CATHERINE S MUTED SCREAMS, then quickly gets to his feet.

        CAMERA IS OVER his shoulders as Thomas approaches the 
        pit, the lid to the air pipe resting on the edge. Thomas 
        jumps in with every intent of opening the coffin...



          Catherine hears the SOUND of someone entering the pit.



        Thomas notes the lid to the air pipe... then... oddly... 
        HE HOLDS... looking at it with fascination. 

        Thomas takes the top of the air pipe and brings it toward 
        the coffin. He considers the box, the air pipe... then... 
        moves to PLACE THE LID BACK ON TOPOF THE PIPE... 



        The spill light falling into the coffin turns dark. O.S., 
        the LID CLINKS and SCREWS CLOSED. CATHERINE SCREAMS...



        He places his ear against the top of the coffin. Thomas 
          absorbs the sense of hearing Catherine s SCREAMS. O.S., 
        SIRENS APPROACH. Thomas suddenly becomes aware and 
          alarmed by his behavior.

                                          THOMAS
                        Catherine...

        He pulls the lock out of the hasp. He opens and pulls 
          Catherine out of the coffin. 

          Relieved to be free from the horror of the box, 
          Catherine s initial response is to hold Thomas. Until... 
        CAMERA PUSHES IN as she notices the air pipe lid atop the 
          air-pipe. Furious, she pulls back and hits Thomas hard 
        with the pads of her hands. He s rocked backwards just as 
        the assembly plant doors open REVEALING MOLBECK and four 
          uniformed officers. Catherine retrieves her weapon and 
          hustles toward them...                                                                                    40


                                            CATHERINE
                      Didn t get eyes on the suspect. 
                      Schaeffer?

        Thomas shakes his head, he didn t see the suspect either.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      Most likely, white male. Unarmed but, 
                      consider him dangerous. Victim is white 
                      female, mid twenties, dark hair. Naked. 

          Molbeck divides up the officers. They quickly move out. 
        Before joining them, Catherine looks back to Thomas...

          Thomas, remains by the pit while Catherine is at the 
          OPPOSITE END OF FRAME by the assembly plant doors. 
          Catherine checks her pistol then hustles out of the 
          building to join the urgent search for the killer while 
        Thomas joins the search for Marlene.

                                                                                CUT TO:



          Marlene Anderson is rushed down a corridor by hospital 
        staff and first responders. Pale and unconscious, a non 
          re-breather oxygen mask is on her face.

          Catherine is in the hallway to meet the gurney. She 
          continues alongside, listening to Marlene s status...

                                          INTERN
                      Severely hypothermic. Unconscious. Not 
                      comatose. Administer rewarming 
                      inhalation and monitor for cardiac 
                      arrest.Do notdefibrillate unless core 
                      temperature is over 31 Celsius.

          Marlene is rolled away as Catherine knows she will just 
        be in the way at this moment and holds in the hallway.

        As the gurney vanishes at the end of the corridor, Thomas 
        is REVEALED, back against the wall. His expression is 
          contrite and yet, he either does not have the social 
        skills to apologize or he is not ashamed of his actions. 

        He moves toward her while displaying the papers and 
          documents discovered in the killer s possession.

                                          THOMAS
                      LakashaWatkins  divorce settlement. 
                      All his victims  degrees, 
                        commendations, license applications... 
                                          (MORE)                                                                                    41

                                          THOMAS (CONT'D)
                      were found in the assembly plant. In 
                      his possession. Like I projected.

        She eyes his approach, unsure...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                        Catherine... I m able to reach that 
                      level of understanding about these 
                      monsters... in part... because of what 
                      I did to you.

          Catherine s eyes hold on him but, before she can answer, 
          Bisgaard appears. The Captain is pleased to see the 
          detectives and is unaware of the tension between them...

                                            BISGAARD
                        Catherine... Schaeffer... great work. 
                      Marlene Anderson wasn t even reported 
                      missing. I m impressed... and 
                        appreciative.

          Catherine and Thomas nod their  thanks.  Bisgaard eyes 
        them, senses tension, but moves along down the hallway. 
        An awkward silence as Catherine approaches Thomas.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Why the coffin?

                                          THOMAS
                      I believe the primary reason for the 
                      coffin... is it s a slow suffocation.
                                (beat)
                      Like his own life.

        She processes this information, gives a nod. Understands. 
        She steps toward him and with a low, but intense voice...

                                            CATHERINE
                      I am notyour lab rat.

          Catherine eyes him, then continues down the corridor 
          leaving Thomas alone in the hospital hallway...

                                                                                CUT TO:



        An ominous figure wearing a black nylon duty jacket moves 
        over gray linoleum floors in a soulless institutional 
        green hallway through dimming fluorescent lighting.                                                                                    42


        The form passes through a door... which slowly closes to 
        REVEAL a door plaque indicating this is the DUTY 
          ASSIGNMENT ROOM of MINUTEMAN SECURITY.



        CAMERA TRACKS ACROSS a large white dry board sectioned 
        off with plastic tape. Handwritten marker indicates 
          OFFICERS... LOCATION... ASSIGNMENT...


          REVERSE - ERIC KROGH

        His lifeless eyes study the duty board. He wears a 
          Minuteman jacket and uniform. Security officers pass...


        ERIC S POV - ASSIGNMENT BOARD

        Just as Thomas suspects, Eric can search for locations in 
        which to come across women who may be trying to improve 
        their lives... community colleges.... Islamic centers.... 
          Churches.... Al Anon meetings.... Political meet ups...


        CLOSER - ERIC

          Suddenly reacts with alarm to unexpected information... 


        ERIC S POV - ASSIGNMENT BOARD

          SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT... B.P.D. SUPPORT... WITNESS/VICTIM 
        WATCH BOSTON MEDICAL I.C.U.


        ERIC

          Considers the information. The tone of his question 
          contains a cold and murderous under current...

                                          ERIC
                      Hey, Chief... so... who pulled this 
                      special assignment at Boston Medical?

        As the killer s eyes lock on the location...


                                        END ACT THREE                                                                                    43


                                            ACT FOUR



          Marlene is motionless, hooked up to an inhalation re-
        warmer and respirator. I.V. needlesare inserted and 
        taped to her hand.

          Catherine stands at Marlene s bedside, her hand softly, 
          carefully, placed on Marlene s arm, as if to warm and 
          comfort her. Outside the room, Catherine sees two 
          uniformed Boston Police Department officers standing 
        guard outside Marlene s door. Thomas enters...

                                          THOMAS
                      Marlene s friend is here.

                                                                                CUT TO:



        Four 27  monitors are divided into multiple screens 
          covering the parking lot and interior of the hospital. A 
          HOSPITAL SECURITY OFFICER, in suit and tie, monitors the 
          screens. He reacts to an image, curious...



        Eric Krogh, in his Minuteman security uniform, approaches 
          a physician in a lab coat, DR. PASTER, half listening 
        while eyeing some patient charts...

                                          ERIC
                      The hospital s assigned me to escort 
                      you to Marlene Anderson s room.

        Paster doesn t challenge the information or the uniform. 
        He s busy and anxious to maintain his rounds...



        The hospital security officer notes Eric s uniform, notes 
        Doctor Paster s posture. No threats and so the security 
          officer dismisses it and moves on to another screen.

                                                                                CUT TO:                                                                                    44



        Thomas and Catherine are in a vacant patient room in the 
        ICU ward. Marlene s friend, NANCY YAUN, 24, sits in a 
        chair crying and rattled. Thomas stands back, studying 
        Nancy while listening to her information...

                                          NANCY
                      Marlene knew we thought she was bailing 
                    on her party friends by making changes 
                    in her life... training to be a nurse.

          Catherine eyes Thomas who remains locked on Nancy...



          Catherine and Thomas can be seen questioning Nancy 
          through the door in the hallway. Eric Krogh and Dr. 
        Paster pass the door, moving toward Marlene s room.


          MARLENE'S ROOM

        The Boston Police guards are familiar with Dr. Paster as 
        he approaches and enters Marlene s room. They eye Eric 
        who gives a reverential salute to the officers.

        Eric enters the room.



        Dr. Paster checks Marlene's vitals and begins an exam 
        while her attempted murderer stands nearby.



        Thomas approaches Nancy as he asks...

                                          THOMAS
                    Is there a guy, an ex boyfriend, who 
                      seemed more upset about her making 
                      these changes and felt left behind?



        Dr. Paster completes his exam and eyes Eric with a nod, 
        as if  all set.  Eric suddenly grabs his mobile phone and 
          answers it in a low tone...                                                                                    45


                                          ERIC
                      Yeah... Yes, lieutenant... I m in the 
                      room with Doctor Paster, now...

        Dr. Paster gestures impatiently,  I have to go.  Eric 
          indicates  he must stay on this call  then flashes a 
        thumbs up indicting  it is okay for the doctor to leave.  
          Relieved to not be further escorted, Dr. Paster exits. 

        Eric is alone with Marlene.

        Eric eyes the window set in the door, the only way to see 
          inside. The curtain is pulled, causing the police guards 
        to be forms outside the door on the closed curtain.

        From his duty jacket, Eric removes a capped 3 mlsyringe 
        filled with Epinephrine. He removes the rubber stopper...



        As Catherine and Thomas continue questioning Nancy, 
          Bisgaard enters with Dr. Paster...

                                            BISGAARD
                      Sorry, to interrupt but, Dr. Paster 
                      just checked Marlene. Her core 
                      temperature is rising...

                                          DR. PASTER
                      With severe hypothermia there remains a 
                      threat of cardiac arrest until the body 
                      temperature has stabilized...



          Marlene s hand FILLS the FRAME. Eric s fingers quickly 
        peel back adhesive tape across the ported cannulae. A 
          syringe needle is inserted in Marlene s I.V. line...


        ERIC

        Works quickly, aroused, perspiring...



          Catherine looks across the hall to Marlene s room...

                                          DR. PASTER
                    If this rate continues, you may be able 
                    to question her later this evening.                                                                                    46



        Eric returns the stopper to the empty syringe and places 
        it back into his pocket.

          Then... on the bed... Marlene begins to convulse... 
          trembling... kicking... sharp... intense.


        ERIC

        Does not smile but... is quite aroused. Suddenly, the 
          physiologic monitors begin to ALARM!He tenses, the 
        alarms were unexpected...



          Hearing the ALARM... Catherine turns toward Marlene s 
        room. She s out of her chair, hustling across the hall...



        Eric reacts, anxious his plan has drawn attention. To 
        cover for himself, he hustles to the door, opens it and 
        steps out into the I.C.U ward...

                                          ERIC
                      DR. PASTER! SHE S HAVING A SEIZURE!



          Catherine moves directly to Eric, challenging him...

                                            CATHERINE
                      WHO ARE YOU?! WHAT ARE YOU DOING?

        Eric, retains his composure, which is actually all the 
        more creepy, once aware of his psychosis...

                                          ERIC
                      Escorting Dr. Paster. Doing my job.

        Thomas and Bisgaard hustle into the hallway, toward 
          Marlene s room, alarmed by Catherine s yelling. 

        Doctor Paster moves quickly from the hallway and into 
          Marlene s room. Nurses and interns follow. Eric turns and 
        starts into the hallway to give the staff room.                                                                                    47


        The life support alarms increase in VOLUME and FREQUENCY. 
          Until... the sickening unwavering TONE of a FLAT-LINE. 
          CONTROLLED PANIC erupts from the ICU team.

          Catherine turns and moves to the doorway. Thomas moves 
        with her, two comforting hands on her shoulders.


        ERIC

        Backs away down the hall in the opposite direction while 
        all attention is on Marlene.


          CATHERINE AND THOMAS

        Dr. Paster and nurses pass them in the f.g. asthey hold 
        in the doorway. The ABSENCE OF VOICES and just the CLICKS 
        of surgical tools, tapes and plastics is CHILLING.

                                          DR. PASTER
                      Time of Death... six-fifty three p.m.

        CAMERA INCHES IN as Catherine and Thomas have lost the 
        person whose life they saved just hours before.

                                                                        TIME CUT TO:



          Catherine sits in a chair by an empty bed. Thomas 
          aimlessly paces in the b.g. Bisgaard enters, moves to 
          Catherine and kneels INTO FRAME beside her...

                                            BISGAARD
                      You need sleep.

        He places a comforting hand on her forearm. She looks to 
        him, accepting. Bisgaard stands, looks to Thomas..

                                            BISGAARD (CONT D)
                      You, too, Schaeffer. Go home.

                                          THOMAS
                        Catherine... your car s at the station. 
                      I ll drive you home, then get you first 
                      thing in the morning.

        In the chair, Catherine collects herself, reluctantly 
          admitting that she is indeed exhausted...                                                                                    48



        The light is dim as CAMERA TRACKS ACROSS a wall of 
          photographs. Crime scene photos. Infamous serial killers. 
        This may appear to be inside a police station but, as 
        CAMERA CONTINUES... an artificial flower arrangement 
          appears... then a sofa with a feminine quilt folded over 
        the back.

        CAMERA PUSHES TOWARD THE FRONT DOOR. The furnishings are 
          comfortable and contemporary but the person that lives 
        here is focused on work...

                                          THOMAS (O.S.)
                      Just open the door and let me see that 
                      you ll be okay.

                                            CATHERINE (O.S.)
                      Um... I m the one with the gun.

        Keys JINGLE. An ALARM turns off. The door opens. 
          Catherine turns on a light as she steps inside moves 
          directly to her laptop, opens it and opens the case file.

        Thomas holds, awkward, watching her from the hallway.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      You want a coffee... or a beer? I can t 
                      drink coffee this late at night. I ll 
                      never sleep.

        He checks his watch... searching for an excuse or the 
          courage to ask her something...

                                          THOMAS
                      I can t imagine you ever sleeping, 
                      anyway... 
                                          (MORE)                                                                                    49

                                          THOMAS (CONT'D)
                      especially during an investigation 
                      but... even killers sleep. If their 
                      sick minds are rested but our normal 
                      minds are mud... people die.

        She eyes him, sighs, then closes the computer and case 
        file. He nods, content, as she heads toward the kitchen 
        and drops her keys, iPhone, and gun holster on the 
          counter before grabbing two cans of beer out of the 
            refrigerator. 

        She extends a beer. To get it, he must enter the 
          apartment and close the door. He locks it.

          Catherine sets out some cookies or crackers as Thomas 
          removes his scarf and absently tosses it on the couch. 

          Hanging in a frame is a  Certificate of Commendation for 
          Excellent Police Work from the Boston Police Department 
        to Catherine Jensen.  He reads it, then nods, impressed.

                                            CATHERINE
                    It got Bisgaard s attention and he 
                      brought me into his homicide unit. Now 
                      I m going for Lieutenant detective.

        Thomas nods, then notices a small dried plant in a 
          planter on the kitchen counter.

                                          THOMAS
                      That needs water.

        She shrugs, agrees, then sips her beer as Thomas notices 
        the wall of crime photos. He moves to the gruesome 
          images, munching on snacks while taking in the wall...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Albert de Salvo! Boston s own! The 
                      Boston Strangler. Wasn t him though.

                                            CATHERINE
                      I know. It s up there to remind me not 
                    to let any suspect convince me into 
                      buying what they re selling.

        She points to another image; a macabre hobby they share.

                                          THOMAS
                      Edmund Kemper. Cut off his mother s 
                      head, tried to jam her larynx down the 
                      garbage disposal, then put her head on 
                      the mantle and threw darts at it for 
                      three days.                                                                                    50


                                            CATHERINE
                      Seems like some of these guys come up 
                      with good ideas, but then can t help 
                      going a little over the top.

                                          THOMAS
                      Richard Ramirez; The Night Stalker... 
                      Denis Rader; The B.T.K. killer...

        She reacts, impressed, then skips over a framed photo of 
          a middle aged man in a button sweater standing in the 
          kitchen of an average suburban family home. Thomas, 
          however, singles out the picture...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      This one I don t know.

        She hesitates, then offers...

                                            CATHERINE
                      That s my step-father.

        Thomas is taken aback... embarrassed... puzzled...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      You didn t come in here for crackers 
                      and beer and to get quizzed on my wall.

        He averts his eyes. Shakes his head, confessional...

                                          THOMAS
                      This is difficult, for me, for a couple 
                      reasons... I know we ve been joking 
                      about it but, I never had anyone say 
                      they appreciate what I do... So I don t 
                      know how to express myappreciation.

        She smiles at his awkwardness, then nods...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      And... I know what I learned, about 
                      this killer, when I kept you in that 
                      box. Why his need to suffocate his 
                      victims but, what I need to know... 
                      and, Catherine, the last thing you are 
                    to me... is a lab rat... did you learn 
                      anything by being kept in that box?

        She eyes him. These are frightening and yet intimate 
          secrets to be exchanging.

                                            CATHERINE
                      What I ve always known. Be worse than 
                      him.                                                                                    51


                                          THOMAS
                      No, no one should ever go there. These 
                      killers... this one in particular... to 
                      see the reactions from the victims 
                      arouses him. I wish they knew to be 
                      stone faced. Blank. That he doesn t 
                      control them. That is how to confuse 
                      and survive him.

        Now, she seems to be profiling him. Revealing such fears 
        and emotions creates an unexpected level of intimacy. 
        Thomas averts his eyes to the wall of photos...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      You ever think about anything else?

                                            CATHERINE
                      I think about sex... and food... 
                      depending on how good it is while I m 
                      having it. You?

                                          THOMAS
                      I think about it... even when I m not 
                      having it... whileI m having it... and 
                      after I ve had it.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Are we talking about sex or food?

        He smiles. She laughs. A moment... until, Thomas walks 
        away in a charming absent minded professor kind of 
          demeanor. Not a rejection of her...

                                          THOMAS
                    Be back in the morning. Around nine.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Thomas...

        He turns. She s being metaphorical while admitting...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      I ve been locked in a box before.

        Before he can dig deeper, however, Catherine indicates 
        she does not wish to offer anything more... right now.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      Good night.

                                          THOMAS
                      I m staying in the hall until I hear 
                      the alarm turn on.                                                                                    52


        He closes the door. Catherine considers their exchange, 
        then dumps the few remaining sips of beer into the dead 
        potted plant. She moves to the wall by the door and 
        inputs the alarm code. It BEEPS.

                                          THOMAS (O.S.) (CONT D)
                      Good night!



        As she puts away the crackers and turns off the lights in 
        the living room and kitchen, Catherine discovers Thomas  
        scarf on the couch. She holds it, a reminder of their 
          personal exchange moments ago.

        O.S., A KNOCK ON THE DOOR. Catherine looks up, then back 
        to the scarf. She smiles as she heads toward her front 
        door in the dark living room.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Oldest trick in the book, Thomas. 
                         Accidentally  leaving the scarf in the 
                      girl s apartment...

        She inputs the alarm pad. With a BEEP, the alarm is off.

        As Catherine opens the door... a dark form grabs her and 
        with quick brute force, charges inside and SLAMS the 
        door. It is Eric Krogh. Catherine drives a fist into his 
          stomach, then tries upper-cutting into his chin. He 
          catches her hand, twists.


          CATHERINE S POV - HER GUN

        In the holster. On the counter. She starts for it but 
        Krogh maintains a grasp of her arm. He pulls her back, 
        wraps his arm under her chin, then injects a syringe 
        needle into her neck. The effect of the injection is 
          immediate. Catherine battles to remain conscious but 
        loses and slumps to the floor, her hand convulsing.

                                                                                CUT TO:                                                                                    53



          Catherine s apartment is empty and still. A KNOCK ON THE 
          DOOR... CAMERA CREEPS TOWARD THE DOOR...

                                          THOMAS (O.S.)
                      It s Thomas.

        No response... ANOTHER KNOCK on the door... ANOTHER. 
        After a few beats... Catherine s mobile phone RINGS. It s 
        on the counter where she left it.

        The doorknob twists as Thomas opens the door. He was 
          already alarmed, but as he looks to the alarm input panel 
        and it is off and the door unlocked, his concern spikes.

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Catherine?

        Her PHONE RINGS and draws his attention to the kitchen 
          counter. He turns off his phone as he moves to it and 
        notes the keys are still beside it.

        He places his hand where he recalls her gun was placed. 
        CAMERA INCHES IN as he holds... thinks... anxious. An 
        idea occurs to him.


        THE LIVING ROOM WALL

        CAMERA PUSHES IN as Thomas discovers the glass in the 
        frame, which held the commendation, has been shattered. 
        The document has been torn out.

        CAMERA PULLS BACK on THOMAS  horrified reaction. He steps 
          backward, absently toward the kitchen, his hands 
          trembling as he opens his cell phone and dials...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                      Bisgaard... He has her... Catherine... 
                      the suspect has taken Catherine.

        Thomas paces before the floor to ceiling collage of crime 
        scene photos. CAMERA PUSHES IN as any one of these 
          sickening murderous images may be Catherine s outcome...


                                        END ACT FOUR                                                                                    54


                                            ACT FIVE



        The FRAME IS BLACK until Catherine s head slumps INTO 
        FRAME, dazed and groggy from physical abuse. Seated in a 
        rusted metal folding chair, her arms and wrists are tied 
        at her side. Her eyes and mouth have been wrapped in gray 
        duct tape. She struggles, pulls against her bonds.

        Harsh fluorescent lights stutter to life REVEALING a 
        moldy white tiled room. A medical storage refrigerator is 
          mounted to the wall.

        Eric Krogh appears in the doorway, a silhouette holding 
        an electric drill. He sets the tool on the floor, then 
        stands before Catherine, his lap inches from her face.

                                          ERIC
                      I just want... things... to be better.

        He finds the edge of duct tape at the back of her head. 
        Peels it... slowly... away from her eyes. She winces with 
        pain as the glue CRACKLES, PULLING her skin and hair.

                                                                                CUT TO:



          Although a professional, Mia is anxious and upset. She 
          finishes dusting the broken citation frame for prints. 
        Thomas paces before the wall of crime scene photos and 
          killers, his eyes focused internally...

        Behind her, Bisgaard and Molbeck enter. Bisgaard is 
          visibly rattled. The Captain releases his emotions on the 
        only team member he did not choose...

                                            BISGAARD
                      She left the hospital with you. I knew 
                      one of my people would get hurt because 
                    of you.

          A UNIFORMED OFFICER enters the apartment...

                                            UNIFORMED OFFICER
                    No one in the building witnessed anyone 
                      except a female tenant, down the hall, 
                      who saw a uniformed policeman enter 
                      about twenty two hundred...

          Bisgaard slumps at the report of no leads...                                                                                    55


        THOMAS

        CAMERA PUSHES INTO him, however... as he reacts...

                                          THOMAS
                      Uniform. No. It was not a cop...

        He turns... approaches Bisgaard and Molbeck...

                                          THOMAS (CONT D)
                    It was a security guard. 
                                (beat)
                    At the hospital, last night... 
                      Catherine took on that security guard. 
                      It s him.

                                                                                CUT TO:



          Although terrorized and angry, Catherine battles to keep 
        her eyes forward and her expression blank. Eric s face 
        lowers INTO FRAME...

                                          ERIC
                      Most people would like things to go 
                      better than they do. Is that wrong?

        Eric reacts to her stone face; puzzled, offended. 

                                          ERIC (CONT D)
                    Is it wrong?

          Suddenly, he viciously, violently, grabs Catherine s 
        hair. He knocks the chair over and picks up the power 
        drill. He clicks the trigger. As the tool WHIRS...



        A 15 fps black and white security monitor replays Eric 
        Krogh escorting Dr. Paster down the hallway.

                                          MOLBECK (V.O.)
                      His name s Eric Krogh.


        THOMAS AND MOLBECK

        Are inside the Boston Medical security room housing the 
          security monitors. They are on a speaker phone... while 
          Molbeck holds his palm over his cell phone...                                                                                    56


                                          MOLBECK
                      Minuteman security vouches for him. 
                      Never had a problem.



          Amongst the frenzy of police officers mobilizing to find 
        one of their own, Bisgaard is on the phone with Molbeck.

                                            BISGAARD
                        Schaeffer... if we arrest him... are 
                      more people going to die?



          Thomas s reflex is to defend himself... but he pauses as 
        if accepting the challenging question...

                                          THOMAS
                      Yousaw him with Catherine last night. 
                      He d perceive her challenge of him as 
                      possibly getting him fired... holding 
                      him back. That s why he s doing this. 
                    He was in Marlene Anderson s room 
                      beforeher seizure. These are all 
                      facts, Frank.



          Bisgaard weighs the facts. He wants to push the button...



        Thomas jumps on the hesitation...

                                          THOMAS
                    If Minuteman worked security at the 
                      factory demolition site... it s him. 
                      That s how he found where to hide the 
                      bodies.

          Molbeck places his mobile to his ear...

                                          MOLBECK
                      Hey... you guys ever pull duty at the 
                      Boston manufacturing demolition site? 
                      Did Krogh?

          Molbeck lowers the phone.                                                                                    57


                                          MOLBECK (CONT D)
                    It ishim.

                                                                                CUT TO:



        The power drill SPINS and WHINES as it removes a pair of 
        screws from the mount holding the refrigerator...


          OVERHEAD

        Eric pushes the box over, it falls and CRASHES inches 
        from Catherine s head. She recoils; nearly breaks down... 
        but battles to maintain a stoic expression.

          Catherine lies on her side, tied to the chair. Eric lifts 
        the lid on the coffin-sized medical refrigerator.

                                                                                CUT TO:



        Thomas studies Molbeck s handwritten list as Molbeck 
        calls out Krogh s recent work locations... 

                                          MOLBECK
                      These are Krogh s Minuteman duty 
                      assignments over the last eight 
                      weeks... Bunker Hill Community 
                      college... Cambridge Galleria...



          Uniformed officers scour the back corridors and lower 
        levels of the shopping mall.

                                                                                CUT TO:



        With a flick of a tactical folding knife, Eric cuts 
          Catherine s bonds. He lowers her own gun to her head...                                                                                    58


                                          ERIC
                      Get in.

                                                                                CUT TO:



          Bisgaard receives a status report from an OFFICER...

                                          BPD OFFICER (V.O.)
                      Negative at TDGarden... in progress at 
                      Bunker Hill... 



        Thomas looks at the list while hearing the reports...

                                          BPD OFFICER (V.O.)
                      Negative... Cambridge Galleria...

        Thomas crosses off the locations as they receive a 
          negative report...

                                          THOMAS
                      There s three places that you didn t 
                      dispatch anyone to check out.

                                          MOLBECK
                      Right... that one s the demolition 
                      site, that place s been since torn down 
                      and thathospital is way up in Essex 
                      and it s been shut down.

                                          THOMAS
                      No. Essex County Psychiatric Hospital. 
                      A third of it remains functional. It s 
                      a place where people are sent to try 
                      and get better. He took her here. It s 
                      outside of the Boston area, so he 
                      thinks we won t look there.

                                          MOLBECK
                      That s Essex county Sheriffs. It ll 
                      take some time to dispatch them up 
                      there.

        With that... Thomas hustles out of the room. Molbeck 
        jumps to his feet and chases after him...

                                                                                CUT TO:                                                                                    59



          Catherine lies in the medical refrigerator as the door 
        SLAMS SHUT! The box turns dark. 

          Catherine pushes against the door. She bangs on the lid. 
          Then... with great discipline, she pulls her hands down, 
        closes her eyes, and tries controlling her breathing.



        Eric is shocked to not hear any SOUND from his victim...

                                          ERIC
                      I know it scares you. They all were 
                      scared... How can you not be scared?



        CAMERA CREEPS ALONG the dust layered hallway of the old 
          soulless hospital. BANG! A window is pushed out. Molbeck 
        climbs into the building followed by Thomas.



          Catherine s eyes wince. She s horrified, straining not to 
          display any emotion...

                                          ERIC (O.S.)
                      When the air turns stale... when there 
                    is no more air... you ll get sleepy... 
                      and you ll know that if you sleep... 
                      you ll die. And you re going to die... 
                      that s when you ll show me... that s 
                      when you won t be able to hide it... 
                      you ll scream. You ll beg. You ll beg 
                    me to make it better... but I won t.



        Sheets of clear plastic cover discarded metal medical 
          equipment.                                                                                     60


        A door opens before a flashlight beam cuts through the 
        eerie sub-level darkness. Thomas and Molbeck descend into 
        the hallway...



        Eric sits on the medical refrigerator. It is SILENT. He 
          listens for Catherine s breathing or movement.

                                          ERIC
                      I ll give you some air... if you cross 
                      your arms.

        He gets off the refrigerator and down on his knees. He 
        places his ear to the lid. NOTHING. He opens his folding 
        knife, then twists the combination lock out of the hasp.

        CAMERA INCHES IN as Eric holds the knife... and begins 
          lifting the refrigerator lid...



        Thomas and Molbeck approach a room in which a bare light 
          remains lit...



          Catherine s silhouette in the foreground is motionless as 
        the lid cracks open REVEALING ERIC checking on her.

          Suddenly... QUICKLY... Catherine JAMSthe lid upward 
          against his chin. Eric s head snaps back.



          Catherine stands, jumps out of the box and kicks the 
        knife out of Eric s hand. He falls on the floor, dazed.

          Catherine races toward the door. Eric kicks his feet out, 
          knocking Catherine s legs from under her.



          Approaching the room, Thomas manages to hear CATHERINE S 
        FALL. He and Molbeck turn and race toward the door.

                                          THOMAS
                      CATHERINE?!                                                                                    61



          Hearing Thomas, she sees Eric s eyes dart toward the 
        door. Eric aims Catherine s gun...

                                            CATHERINE
                      THOMAS! NO!



        Thomas reaches for the pull handle. He opens the door...



        Eric FIRESCatherine s gun!



        Thomas and Molbeck hit the deck. Debris flies!



          Catherine grabs the metal chair off the floor. She swings 
        it against Eric s forearms causing him to drop the gun.

        She quickly counters and swings back, driving the chair 
        edge against the bottom of his chin. The killer is 
          knocked backward onto the floor.

          Catherine hustles toward her gun and retrieves it.

          Molbeck, armed, enters the room followed by Thomas, who 
        finds Catherine with her gun aimed at Eric, back on the 
        floor, chin cut and bleeding.

        And now, Catherine cannot keep it together any longer. 
        She cries, her expression furious and venting her fear.

                                            CATHERINE
                      CROSS YOUR ARMS!

        Eric is defiant, arms outstretched on the ground...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      LIKE YOU MADE THEM! CROSS YOUR ARMS!

        Eric will not cross his arms. Thomas carefully moves to 
        her and lowers his voice.                                                                                    62


                                          THOMAS
                        Catherine... he s not your step-father.

          Catherine s arms begin to tremble as she lowers the 
          weapon. She moves to Thomas wishing to be comforted by 
        the person who understands her. Thomas  back is to Eric 
        and Molbeck as he awkwardly wraps his arms around his 
          partner and holds her.


        ERIC

        Holds his arms down as Molbeck moves in with handcuffs...


        CLOSE - ERIC S HAND

        Palms the folding knife.


        ERIC AND MOLBECK

        As Molbeck reaches out for Eric s hand, Eric twists and 
          slashes at Molbeck s weapon hand. MOLBECK SCREAMS as Eric 
          wrestles the officer s gun from his hand, then spins his 
        aim toward Catherine and Thomas.


          CATHERINE AND THOMAS

        She pulls him to the ground as she FIRES!


        ERIC

        The bullet impacts through his skull, blood and bone  
          sprayacross the tile wall!


        THOMAS AND CATHERINE

        Ears ringing from the BLAST, he s shocked by the 
          explosion of Eric s skull. Catherine gives an order...

                                            CATHERINE
                      Get Molbeck out of here.

        Thomas hesitates to leave Catherine with Eric s body, 
        even if obviously dead.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      CALL IT IN! GET HIM TO AN ER! GO!                                                                                    63


        Thomas moves to Molbeck, wrapping his bleeding hand in 
        his shirt, the two men hustle out of the room. Once gone, 
          Catherine moves to Eric s dead body. She reaches down, 
        OUT OF FRAME, then stands and backs away...


          OVERHEAD

          Catherine stands over Eric Krogh s dead body, his arms 
          crossed over his chest.

                                                                                CUT TO:



        The title page of a term paper FILLS THE FRAME.  Impact 
        of parental relationships on serial killers.  By Agnes 
          LenzForensic Psychology 207 for Dr. Thomas Schaeffer.

        A red felt pen marks a large  B-  in the upper right...


        WIDER

        Thomas sits at his desk grading term papers. Benedicte 
        enters the office with a cup of tea. She clears room 
          amongst all the papers and sets it on the desk. She 
        kisses him on the head.

                                            BENEDICTE
                      Thank you for keeping your promise.

        He looks up to her and places his arm lovingly around her 
        waist. Noticeable, however, is that Thomas doesn t 
          verbally respond to his wife.

          A KNOCK ON THE DOOR FRAME causes them to both look up. 
        Their son, John, stands at the door with Catherine.

        Thomas and Benedicte smile, although his wife subtly 
          questions Catherine s motives for showing up at her home. 
        As if aware of this, Catherine lifts her crossed arms 
        draped with his scarf.

                                            CATHERINE
                      You left it at the station when you 
                      packed up.

          Benedicte waves Catherine into the room. While Benedicte 
        moves out from behind the desk and collects their boy...

                                            BENEDICTE
                      Can I get you a coffee?                                                                                    64


                                            CATHERINE
                      No, thank you. I just stopped by to 
                      give him the scarf.

          Catherine and Benedicte exchange a pleasant smile as she 
          passes. Once Thomas  wife and son have left, Catherine 
        sets the scarf down on the corner of the desk.

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      They promoted me to Lieutenant 
                      Detective. Bisgaard has signed off... 
                    if you want to sign on.

        He smiles, then averts his eyes, apologetically.

                                          THOMAS
                        I promised... this was a one time deal.

          Catherine nods, understands. She raises her hands as if 
         I get it. I surrender.  She checks the time on her cell 
        phone as an excuse to get going.

                                            CATHERINE
                      Good night, Thomas. Thank you.

          Catherine exits, leaving Thomas alone. CAMERA PUSHES INTO 
        HIM as he opens and attends to some files on his desk.


          A MANILA FILE

        For Thomas s future studies and work, a thick report of 
        papers and crime scene photos of Eric Krogh is closed 
          revealing a label indicating...  Apprehended/DECEASED. 


        THOMAS

        Thomas sets the file aside. He pauses... considers... 
        then reacts... curious. He looks to his scarf on the 
        corner of the desk left by Catherine. He reaches over and 
        lifts the scarf. Beneath it, Catherine has left another 
        manila folder.

        Thomas opens the file. CAMERA PUSHES IN TO THE DESK, 
          REVEALING the file's content. The only information 
          inside... is the photo of Catherine's step-father. The 
        cover closes. With a pen, Thomas marks the file... "CASE 
          OPEN/SUBJECT AT LARGE."


                                        END ACT FIVE