POV from within as the door opens and a widening block of
sunlight illuminates the dusty shadows. Malcolm and John
Wallace step in, and are shocked to see...
POV THE WALLACES
Hanging from the rafters of the barn are thirty Scottish
noblemen and thirty pages, their faces purple and contorted
by the strangulation hanging, their tongues protruding.
Malcolm stabs the pitchfork into the ground in useless anger;
John still grips the axe as he follows his father through
the hanging bodies of the noblemen to the back row, to see
the one man in commoner's dress, like theirs...
FATHER
MacAndrews.
A SHUFFLE; John spins; William has entered the back door.
JOHN
William! Get out of here!
WILLIAM
Why would MacAndrews make so many
scarecrows?
Before his father and brother can think of anything to say,
William, with a boy's curiosity, touches the spurred foot of
the hanged noblemen we first saw riding in. It's too solid;
he takes a real look at the face, and suddenly --
WILLIAM
R -- real!!!... Ahhhhhgggg!...
He turns to run, but knocks back into the feet of the hanged
man behind him! In blind panic he darts in another direction,
and runs into another corpse, and another; the hanged men
begin to swing, making it harder for William's father and
older brother to fight their way to him.
FATHER
William! William!
Then, worst of all, William sees the pages, boys like himself,
hanged in a row behind their masters!
Finally his father and brother reach William and hug him
tight. There in the barn, among the swinging bodies of the
hanged nobles, Malcolm Wallace grips his sons.
FATHER
Murderin' English bastards.
CUT TO:
William has cooked stew in a pot, and now spoons up two
steaming bowls full and sets them out on the table. But he
is only hoping. He looks out the window again; he is still
all alone. So he leaves a candle burning on the table beside
the stew, and moves up the stairs.
William has been awake all night, afraid to sleep. He rises,
and in QUICK CUTS: he dresses; he moves down the hall, stops
at the door of his father's bedroom and sees the undisturbed
bed. He moves on, passing the door of his brother's room,
also unrumpled.
IN THE KITCHEN
He finds the two cold bowls of stew, beside the exhausted
candle. He spoons up his own cold porridge, and eats alone.
On a table the undertaker has laid out the bodies and is
preparing them. Cloths around the lower jaw and top of the
head bind their mouths shut; pennies cover their eyes.
Softly, William enters the shed, drawn to his father and
brother. Campbell follows him in, wanting to stop him -- but
what can he say now? The undertaker goes on with his work.
William approaches the table; the bodies don't look real to
him. He sees the wounds. The dried blood.
The undertake pours water from a bowl and scrubs off the
blood. But the wounds remain.
William and Argyle are sitting at the table, eating. Argyle
has laid out a proper meal, with exact place settings.
ARGYLE
Not that spoon, that one's for soup.
Dip away from you. And don't slurp.
Argyle sits down and begins to dine with the boy.
ARGYLE
We'll sleep here tonight. You'll
come home with me. We'll let the
house, and the lands too; plenty of
willing neighbors.
WILLIAM
I don't want to leave.
ARGYLE
Didn't want your father to die either,
did ya? But it happened.
Argyle pushes his food away; he has no appetite now.
ARGYLE
Did the priest say anything about
the Resurrection? Or was it all about
Judgment?
WILLIAM
It was in Latin, sir.
ARGYLE
Non loquis Latinum? You don't speak
Latin? We have to fix that, won't
we?
(beat)
Did he give the poetic benediction?
The Lord bless thee and keep thee?
Patris Benefactum et --
(beat)
...It was Malcolm's favorite.
Argyle knows nothing about tucking a boy in bed; he stands
awkwardly idle as William scrubs his face at the washstand
and crawls into bed.
WILLIAM
Good night, Uncle.
Argyle grunts and starts out. Then he stops, turns back,
leans down over William... and with great tenderness the
grizzled old uncle kisses his nephew on his hair.
Argyle sits by the hearth, staring at the embers. He holds
the huge broadsword that belonged to his brother. He looks
at the handle, like a cross. He whispers...
ARGYLE
"The Lord bless thee and keep thee..."
Tears of grief spill down the old man's cheeks.
Once again the boy stands in the doorway of the barn, looking
at the garish, hanged faces in his nightmare. Then a mangled
hand comes from behind him and grasps his shoulder, William
gasps, but the hand holds him gently. He turns to see his
father, and his brother! They are wounded, bloody, but they
smile at him; they're alive! Weeping in joy, William reaches
to hug them, but his father stretches forth a forbidding
hand.
William keeps reaching out helplessly. His father and brother
move past him to the hanged knights. Two empty nooses are
there. Before the boy's weeping eyes they put their heads
into the nooses, and hoist themselves up.
William's grief explodes; his tears erupt and
HE WAKES IN HIS BEDROOM
tears flooding down his face. A dream! Still upset, still
grieving, he gets up and goes looking for his uncle.
William moves down to the room where his uncle would be
sleeping. He opens the door. The bed has been slept in --
but his uncle is not there. He moves downstairs to
THE KITCHEN
But his uncle is not there either. Then William hears a
strange, haunting sound-distant, carried by the wind. He
moves to the window and sees only moonlight. He opens the
window and hears it more clearly: bagpipes. William lights a
candle and throws open the door. Wind rushes in, blowing out
his candle. But he hears the pipes, louder in the wind.
Amid the scarlet and ermine robes of officiating lords, with
gemstones sparkling everywhere, we hear...
VOICE OVER
Twelve years later, Longshanks
supervised the wedding of his eldest
son, also named Edward, who would
succeed him to the throne.
LONGSHANKS, King of England, stands in the jeweled light of
the ancient Abbey. Known as Longshanks because of the spindly
legs that make him almost seven feet tall, he has a hawk's
nose and a snake's eyes, punctuating a face of distinct
cruelty. Historians of his day considered him and the line
of Plantagenets from which he came to be devil worshipers.
VOICE OVER
As bride for his son, Longshanks had
chosen a relative of his rival, the
king of France.
GENEVIEVE, a nineteen-year-old virgin of stupendous beauty
moves down the aisle, the light in her face outshining her
blindingly white wedding gown. As she reaches the altar her
hands tremble, but she maintains her poise and control.
She looks toward EDWARD, Prince of Wales. Pampered young men
surround him as his retinue. He takes her hand coldly and
goes through the ceremony under his father's stare.
VOICE OVER
It was widely whispered that for the
Princess to conceive, Longshanks
would have to do the honors himself.
That may have been what he had in
mind all along.
The ceremony concluding, attendants lift back the bride's
veil. Her wedding day, the ultimate moment -- and Prince
Edward ignores her, to turn back to his friends. But prompted
by one of the sour lords, he leans over and pecks his new
Princess on the cheek. For an instant, we see in her eyes
that her heart is dying. But she keeps her poise.
VOICE OVER
Having seen to his obligations to
provide for a successor, Longshanks
set about his fondest business -- to
crush Scotland, and turn his power
against France...
CLOSE - A MAP OF THE BRITISH ISLES
Longshanks' narrow finger jabs Scotland.
LONGSHANKS
Scotland! Scot-land!
We are in the --
Longshanks is being listened to by his advisors, all in the
outrageous splendor of royal military dress, and all deathly
afraid of him.
LONGSHANKS
The French will grovel to anyone
with strength! But how will they
credit our strength when we cannot
rule the whole of our own island?!
He punches the map, then sees the Princess enter softly.
LONGSHANKS
Where is my son?
PRINCESS
Your pardon, M'lord, he asked me to
come in his stead.
Longshanks' eyes expand in fury; it is frightening to see.
LONGSHANKS
I sent for him -- and the little
coward send you?!
PRINCESS
Shall I leave, M'lord?
LONGSHANKS
If he wants his queen to rule, then
you stay and learn how! I will deal
with him.
He spins back toward his generals. Ignored, the princess
settles silently onto the cushions of the window seat.
LONGSHANKS
Nobles are the key to the Scottish
door. Grant their nobles land here
in England. Give our own nobles
estates in the north. Make them too
greedy to oppose us.
One OLD ADVISOR speaks up hesitantly.
OLD ADVISOR
Sire... Our nobles will be reluctant
to relocate. New lands mean new taxes,
and they are taxed already for our
war in France.
Longshanks glares at him, but takes the point. The wheels
grind in his brain; his dark eyes falling on the Princess,
he is inspired.
LONGSHANKS
Perhaps it's time to reinstitute an
old custom. Grant them prima noctes,
"First night." When any common girl
inhabiting their lands is married,
our lords shall have sexual rights
to her on the night of her wedding.
That should fetch just the kind of
lords we want in Scotland.
The prince and a muscular young friend, PHILLIP, are stripped
to the waist and fencing. They pay no attention to the
KNOCK, or to the Princess as she enters. She watches them --
they are dancing more than fencing. Edward loses his sword;
it clatters to the polished floor. He looks up at his wife,
as if angry at her for having seen his clumsiness.
EDWARD
What is it?!
PRINCESS
You directed me to report to you the
moment the king's conference was
ended.
EDWARD
So I did! And what was so important
about it?
PRINCESS
Scotland. He intends --
But Edward and his friend are fencing again, the clanging of
their blunted swords so loud that she can't hear herself.
PRINCESS
He intends to grant --
Edward loses his weapon again, and whirls on her.
EDWARD
Shut up, would you! How can I
concentrate?!
PRINCESS
...His majesty was quite keen that
you should understand --
EDWARD
All so very boring! He wants me to
learn to fight too, so let me do it!
For an instant, anger flares into her eyes. She glances at
Edward, and at the young man with him, then lowers her eyes
and starts to back out. But Edward has noticed.
EDWARD
Stop there.
She stops, but does not raise her eyes.
EDWARD
Do you disapprove of Phillip?
He lifts his hand and draws his friend Phillip to his side.
Still the Princess does not lift her eyes.
PRINCESS
(barely audible)
No, M'lord.
EDWARD
Look at me. I said LOOK AT ME!
She lifts her eyes. But she could not brace herself enough
for what she sees: Edward nuzzling Phillip, the prince's
bare chest to his muscular friend's bare back, both men
glistening with sweat and sexual excitement.
The Princess's eyes quiver... but she does not look away.
EDWARD
Now, my flower, do you understand?
PRINCESS
Yes. I had thought that... I was
loathsome to you. Perhaps I am. If I
may be excused, M'lord.
EDWARD
You may.
She starts to leave, as quietly as she came. But her husband
calls after her.
EDWARD
Don't worry, m'Lady, it is my royal
responsibility to breed. And I assure
you, when the time comes, I shall...
manage.
She closes the door softly, on her husband and his lover.
VOICE OVER
Now in Edinburgh were gathered the
council of Scottish nobles...
ESTABLISHING COUNCIL - DAY
The picturesque heart of Scotland, with its CASTLE on a fairy
tale plateau above the Firth of Forth.
The nobles are gathered around a huge table. They rise at
the entrance of young ROBERT THE BRUCE, a handsome young
man, full of intelligence and power.
VOICE OVER
Among these was Robert, the 17th
Earl of Bruce, a leading contender
for the crown of Scotland.
Robert strides to his seat in the center of the table, and
the others settle in respectfully. MORNAY, another young
warrior, gives him a bow, as does CRAIG, a grizzled noble.
CRAIG
Young Robert, we are honored --
ROBERT
My father hears that Longshanks has
granted prima noctes.
CRAIG
Clearly meant to draw more of his
supporters here.
MORNAY
The Balliol clan has endorsed the
right, licking Longshanks' boots so
he will support their claim to the
throne. If we make a show of
opposition, the commoners will favor
us.
ROBERT
It is too soon to step out alone. My
father believes we must lull
Longshanks into confidence, by neither
supporting his decree nor opposing
it.
CRAIG
A wise plan. And how is your father?
We have missed him at the council.
ROBERT
He strained his leg so that it pains
him to ride. But he sends his
greetings -- and says that I speak
for all the Bruces. And for Scotland.
This ancient Gaelic place of worship has been destroyed by
the occupying army, and yet it looks devoutly holy this way,
lit only by candles and moonlight through the open roof. The
village PRIEST whom we saw at the wedding celebration is
waiting at the altar. Marion steps into the confessional, as
William moves to the altar and kneels in prayer.
Marion emerges; she's changed into the wedding dress she
made from the cloth she bought. William stands and watches
her float down the aisle; his whole life was worth this
moment.
Together, the two lovers turn to the priest.
PRIEST
You have come to pledge, each to the
other, before Almighty God.
From within his shirt, William withdraws a strip of cloth
woven in his family tartan. He and Marion each lift a hand
to the priest, and he binds their wrists with the cloth.
WILLIAM
I will love you my whole life. You
and no other.
From her dress she takes a handmade handkerchief, embroidered
with a thistle to look like the one she first gave him those
years ago.
MARION
And I you. You and no other. Forever.
The Priest waits for them to go on, but neither can; they're
too taken with emotion, looking at each other. The Priest
intones holy phrases...
PRIEST
Agus bhayd lauch... The Lord bless
and keep thy love, now and forever.
The lovers kiss. As they break their embrace, a figure
carrying something dark and spiky appears at the broken door
of the church, and William spins as if to attack, but the
Priest catches his arm; they see the man carries bagpipes.
PRIEST
I trust him -- or I'd'a killed him
me'self. A weddin' needs pipes.
The piper begins to play, and the tune from his primitive
chanter is wispy, ethereal, beautiful. The lovers look into
each other's eyes, as the single melody of the pipes merges
into a swell of music, UNDERSCORING MONTAGE
William and Marion ride the path to the top of the precipice,
where, in the shelter of the grove, they spend their
honeymoon. The MUSIC CONTINUES as, still sweaty from their
love-making, he returns her to her house just before dawn.
She waves from her window, as William rides away, as we
DISSOLVE TO:
Marion is thrown into a chair and her arms are bound with an
oak staff behind her elbows. She and two dozen soldiers are
in the tavern the English have commandeered.
The Magistrate is a battlescarred veteran, a brutal pragmatist
angry with his CORPORAL.
MAGISTRATE
One Scot buggers six of us? Hell to
pay when that gets round.
CORPORAL
Burn the village.
MAGISTRATE
But he is free. You never catch 'em
in the Highlands.
He studies Marion, her mouth now stuffed with burlap. He
notices the strip of cloth around her neck, and touches the
weave curiously.
CORPORAL
Clans weave that cloth in their own
patterns.
MAGISTRATE
So why is this strip concealed?
(beat)
He fought for you, eh?
Robert the Bruce is in bed with a young Nordic beauty with
vacant blue eyes. She drowses; but the lovemaking has not
defused the restlessness of Robert's spirit. He lies on his
stomach, turned away from her on the bed. Stirring, she kisses
his neck; but he doesn't respond.
WOMAN
I wanted to please you.
ROBERT
You did.
But he is numb as she nuzzles him again. She sags back, and
he still stares away, lost in thought. Realizing her hurt,
he explains...
ROBERT
In Lanark village, the king's soldiers
killed a girl. Her lover fought his
way through the soldiers and killed
the magistrate.
She looks at him blankly.
ROBERT
He rebelled. He rebelled. He acted.
He fought! Was it rage? Pride? Love?
Whatever it was, he has more of it
than I.
WOMAN
(hurt)
You might have lied.
ROBERT
I'm too arrogant to lie.
CLOSE - ROBERT THE BRUCE
On his FACE as he moves grimly up a dark castle staircase.
He follows a servant who carries a candle against the gloom.
They reach a door, which the servant unlocks. Young Robert
takes the candle, and enters --
A DARKENED ROOM
Robert wills himself forward, and places the candle on a
table in the center of the room. A SHUFFLE in the dark; then
moving into the light is a LEPER whose once-noble features
are decaying with the disease. Isolated in his disfiguration,
he looks at his visitor -- his son -- with the eyes of the
condemned. Young Robert forces himself not to look away.
ROBERT THE BRUCE
Father. A rebellion has begun.
THE LEPER
Under whom?
ROBERT
A commoner named William Wallace.
THE LEPER
A commoner? So no one leads Scotland?
The old man thinks, and points a half finger at his son.
THE LEPER
You will embrace this rebellion.
Support it, from our lands in the
north. I will gain English favor by
condemning it and ordering it opposed
from our lands in the south. Whichever
way the tide runs, we will rise.
ROBERT
This Wallace. He doesn't even have a
knighthood. But he fights with
passion, and he is clever. He inspires
men.
THE LEPER
You admire him. Uncompromising men
are easy to admire. He has courage.
So does a dog. But you must understand
this: Edward Longshanks is the most
ruthless king ever to sit on the
throne of England, and none of us,
and nothing of Scotland, will survive
unless we are as ruthless, more
ruthless, than he.
Young Bruce rises heavily, and moves to the door.
THE LEPER
Press your case to the nobles. They
will choose who rules Scotland.
With a last long look at his father, Robert leaves.
LORD PICKERING, English commander, is handed news of the
disaster. He reads the message, and pales.
PICKERING
Another ambush! My God! ...What about
our infiltrator?
ASSISTANT
He has already joined them, M'lord.
William kneels before one of Scotland's ancient elders, who
lifts a silver sword and dubs William's shoulders.
ELDER
I knight thee Sir William Wallace.
William rises and faces the Great Hall, crowded with hundreds
of new admirers, as well as his old friends in their new
clothes and armor. The crowd chants --
CROWD
Wal-lace, Wal-lace!!
Wallace lifts his eyes, taking it all in. At the rear of the
hall is a balcony, backed by a magnificent sunlit stained
glass window, and in the center of its rainbow corona he
sees a familiar form: Marion, so real to him in this moment
of triumph that he can see her, glowing like an angel, in a
gown worthy of the occasion. But the illusion won't last; in
the blink of an eye she is gone, and Wallace hears the chant,
and fingers the cloth she gave him.
The nobles of Scotland are gathered in the huge chamber; a
massive table runs across the far end of the room, and aligned
on either side are the two rival factions of nobles, glaring
at each other. Old Craig is in the center, with young Robert
the Bruce on his right. There is a general MURMUR along the
nobles, and Robert whispers to Craig...
ROBERT
Does anyone know his politics?
CRAIG
No. But his weight with the commoners
could unbalance everything. The
Balliols will kiss his ass, so we
must.
A court STEWARDS steps in and formally announces...
STEWARD
Lords of Scotland: Sir William
Wallace!
The nobles on each side of the table try to outdo each other
in their acclamation as Wallace strides in, flanked by Hamish,
Campbell, and Stephen, splendid in their tartans.
Old Craig rises.
CRAIG
Sir William. In the name of God, we
declare and appoint thee High
Protector of Scotland! And thy
captains as aides decamp!
The nobles rise; court attendants hurry to Wallace and drape
a golden chain of office around his neck. Wallace takes the
three smaller chains they bring and drapes them around the
necks of his friends, as once again the nobles applaud.
Almost before the applause dies, a member of the BALLIOL
clan, who has kept an open seat beside him, speaks up...
BALLIOL
Sir William!! Inasmuch as you and
your captains hail from a region
long known to support the Balliol
clan, may we invite you to join us?
But Wallace's gaze has locked onto Robert the Bruce, who
stares back, the two young lions instantly recognizing the
leadership power of each other.
WALLACE
You are Robert the Bruce.
ROBERT THE BRUCE
I am.
WALLACE
My father fought in support of yours.
The Balliols shrivel. The nobles on the Bruce side can barely
keep from grinning. Suddenly the men on the other end of the
table change their attack.
BALLIOL
With this new success, the result of
all of Scotland's efforts, now is
the time to declare a king!
MORNAY
Then you are prepared to recognize
our legitimate succession!
BALLIOL
You're the ones who won't support
the true claim! I demand consideration
of these documents!
Wallace glances again at the Bruce, who suddenly feels ashamed
of the bickering.
MORNAY
Those were lies when they were
written! Our documents prove
absolutely that --
Suddenly Wallace turns his back and walks toward the door.
CRAIG
Sir William! Where are you going?
WILLIAM
We have beaten the English! But
they'll come back, because you won't
stand together. There is one clan in
this country -- Scotsmen. One class --
free. One price -- courage.
He turns again and strides toward the door.
CRAIG
But... what will you do?
WALLACE
I will invade England. And defeat
the English on their own ground.
CRAIG
Invade?! That's impossible, it --
Wallace slings out his broadsword and moves down the length
of the table, bashing the succession documents into the laps
of the nobles.
WALLACE
LISTEN TO ME! Longshanks understands
this! This!
He brandishes the broadsword.
WALLACE
There is a difference between us.
You think the people of this country
exist to provide you with position.
I think your position exists to
provide the people with freedom. And
I go to make sure they have it.
Wallace bangs through the door. Suppressing smiles, his
friends file out behind him.
Wallace and his men are marching away, as Robert the Bruce
runs out after them.
ROBERT
Wait! ...I respect what you said.
But remember, these men have lands,
castles. Much to risk.
WALLACE
And the common man who bleeds on the
battlefield, does he risk less?
ROBERT
No. But from top to bottom this
country has no sense of itself. Its
nobles share allegiance with England
and its clans war with each other.
If you make enemies on both sides of
the border, you'll end up dead.
WALLACE
We all end up dead. It's only a
question of how. And why.
Wallace walks; Robert catches up and speaks to him in an
urgent half whisper, so that no one else can hear.
ROBERT
I'm no coward! I want what you want!
But we need the nobles.
WALLACE
Nobles? What does that mean -- to be
noble? Your title gives you claim to
the throne of our country. But men
don't follow titles, they follow
courage! Your arm speaks louder than
your tongue. Our people know you.
Noble and common, they respect you.
If you would lead them toward freedom,
they would follow you. And so would
I.
Wallace walks away, leaving Robert the Bruce alone.
THE SCOTTISH ARMY - DAY
Wallace rides at the head of his army, moving through the
countryside of northern England. It is autumn, the foliage
is beautiful, the wheat fields gold with harvest.
The ROYAL GOVERNOR is a spoiled young man, Longshanks' nephew.
He is studying maps and written appeals for help; his CAPTAIN
of defenses strides in with another note.
CAPTAIN
Message from your cousin, the Prince.
He says London has no more troops to
send.
GOVERNOR
Every town in Northern England is
begging for help! Where will Wallace
strike first?
CAPTAIN
I should think these smaller
settlements along the border...
They hear shouts as a rider arrives and dismounts. They look
out to see a panicked RIDER, who shouts up...
RIDER
He advances!
GOVERNOR
To what town?
RIDER
He comes here!
SMASH TO:
CARTS, RUMBLING IN PANIC DOWN A ROAD
as civilians flee the walled city in the distance.
THE SCOTTISH ARMY
has cut a huge tree and placed it on wheels. It rumbles
ominously TOWARD CAMERA...
THE CIVILIAN PANIC CONTINUES as more people join the swell
of those leaving York.
THE SCOTTISH ARMY keeps coming on.
INSIDE THE WALLS OF THE CITY - DAY
The governor is furious and confused.
GOVERNOR
We will not allow a bandit to panic
the greatest city in Northern England!
Close off the escapes! Let no one
leave!
CAPTAIN
The city has emptied already, Sire.
Only the Scottish civilians remain.
The Governor turns to his captain with a look worthy of his
uncle, Longshanks the King.
ON THE BATTERING RAM
as it picks up speed and SLAMS into the wooden gate of the
city. With the collision, THE BATTLE IS ON. It's a night
battle: torches, flaming arrows, pots of boiling oil being
splashed down at the attackers, who swarm the gate.
The oil beats the first wave of Scots back, but Wallace rushes
forward, grabbing the ram cart with his own hands; the
attackers rally to him, helping him slam the gate again and
again. It breaks; but behind it is an awful tangle of carts,
broken sheds, impenetrable rubbish. Wallace grabs a torch,
throws it into the wooden tangle, and shouts --
WALLACE
Back! Wait for it to burn!
INSIDE THE CITY
The Captain hurries into the tower room.
CAPTAIN
They've breached the wall!
GOVERNOR
Then do as I ordered.
OUTSIDE THE WALLS
The Scots wait, biding their time as the barrier burns.
Suddenly they look up in horror; the English are throwing
the bodies of hanged Scots over the wall.
They stare at this in mute shock. Wallace is frozen, his
eyes reflecting his boyhood reaction. His men rush forward.
WALLACE
STOP! NOT YET! LISTEN TO ME!
(beat)
They wish to frighten us! Or goad us
into attacking too soon! Don't look
away! LOOK!
The Scots look at the hanging bodies.
WALLACE
Behold the enemy we fight! We will
be more merciful than they have been.
We will spare women, children, and
priests. For all else, no mercy.
Wallace draws his broadsword. The burning debris inside the
gate collapses, leaving a tunnel through the fire. Wallace
screams, and leads the charge through the burning barrier.
Prince Edward and Phillip, his fencing friend and lover,
hear a contingent of horsemen clatter into the courtyard
below; they look out the window and see the arrival of
Longshanks.
They lean back into the room and Edward begins to pace
nervously.
PHILLIP
It is not your fault! Stand up to
him.
Edward shows Phillip the dagger he has concealed in his belt
behind his back.
EDWARD
I will stand up to him, and more.
Longshanks bangs the door open and stalks in angrily. First
he glares at Phillip with obvious loathing, then turns his
piercing stare to his own son.
LONGSHANKS
What news of the north?
EDWARD
Nothing new, Majesty. We have sent
riders to speed any word.
LONGSHANKS
While I am in France fighting to
expand your future kingdom I learn
that Stirling castle is lost, our
entire northern army wiped out! And
you have done nothing?!
EDWARD
I have ordered conscriptions...
A messenger enters and hands the prince a message. Edward
reads it and nearly loses his balance.
EDWARD
Wallace has sacked York!
LONGSHANKS
Impossible.
(to messenger)
How dare you bring a panicky lie.
The messenger has also brought a basket. He approaches the
central table with great dread and places the basket on it,
uncovering its contents. Prince Edward is closest; he looks
in, then staggers back, stunned. Longshanks moves to the
sack coldly, looks in, and withdraws the severed head of his
nephew, York's (former) Governor.
PHILLIP
Sire! Thy own nephew! What beast
could do such a thing?!
The king drops the head back into the sack, unmoved.
LONGSHANKS
If he can sack York, he can invade
lower England.
PHILLIP
We would stop him!
LONGSHANKS
Edward, who is this shitpoker who
speaks to me as if I needed his
advice?
EDWARD
I have declared Phillip my High
Counselor.
Longshanks nods as if impressed. He moves to Phillip and
examines the gold chain of office that the young man wears.
Then Longshanks grabs him and throws him out the window, the
same one Edward and Phillip were looking out, six stories
above the courtyard. We hear Phillip's SCREAM as he falls.
Edward rushes toward the window in horror. He looks out at
the result, turns back toward his father in shock and hatred,
and only then remembers the dagger and goes for it.
He stabs at Longshanks; the old king smiles at the attack,
parrying, letting his arms be cut.
LONGSHANKS
You fight back at last!
Then Longshanks unleashes his own hateful fury; he grapples
with Edward, knocking the dagger away and hurling him to the
floor; then Longshanks kicks his son, again and again. He
exhausts his fury on him.
Edward is a bloody mess; Longshanks coughs up a bit of blood.
He ignores it and his son's wreckage, and goes back to the
discussion, as if this fight was normal business.
LONGSHANKS
We must sue for a truce, and buy him
off. But who will go to him? Not I.
If I came under the sword of this
murderer, I would end up like my
nephew. And not you, the sight of my
faggot son would only encourage an
enemy to take over this country. So
whom do I send?
Longshanks calculates.
The doors open; the Princess enters Longshanks' war council;
Prince Edward is there, among a dozen others.
LONGSHANKS
My son's loyal wife returns, unkilled
by the heathen. So he accepted our
bribe.
PRINCESS
No. He did not.
LONGSHANKS
Then why does he stay? My scouts say
he has not advanced.
PRINCESS
He waits. For you. He says he will
attack no more towns -- if you are
man enough to come fight him.
LONGSHANKS
You spoke with this Wallace in
private. What kind of man is he?
PRINCESS
...A mindless barbarian. Not a king
like you, M'lord.
LONGSHANKS
The Scottish nobles have sent him no
support. His army starves. Our stall
has worked, he must withdraw. You
may return to your embroidery.
PRINCESS
Humbly, M'lord.
She barely curtseys, and starts out.
EDWARD
You brought back the money, of course?
He already knows she didn't; Hamilton is standing near him.
PRINCESS
No. I have it to ease the suffering
of the children of this war.
LONGSHANKS
(glances at son)
This is what happens when you must
send a woman. And a fool.
PRINCESS
Forgive me, Sire. I thought that
generosity might demonstrate your
greatness to those you mean to rule.
LONGSHANKS
My greatness is better demonstrated
with this.
From a box at his feet the king withdraws a crossbow and
throws it onto the table. Most of those there are shocked.
EDWARD
The weapon has been outlawed by the
Pope himself!
LONGSHANKS
So the Scots will have none of them,
will they? My armorers have already
made a thousand.
Longshanks smiles. No one notices that the Princess is deadly
pale.
In the faint nimbus of the single candle, young Robert sits
across from his leper father. The son grips his own head, as
if stunned by a blow.
ROBERT
This... cannot be the way.
THE LEPER
You have said yourself that the nobles
will not support Wallace, so how
does it help us to join the side
that is slaughtered?
Heartsick, the father reaches across the table, then stays
his arm, unwilling to touch his son with his leprous hand.
THE LEPER
My son. Look at me. I cannot be king.
You, and you alone, can rule Scotland.
What I tell you, you must do -- for
yourself, and for your country.
Young Robert holds his father with his eyes, and does not
look away.
Wallace, still bloody and in his battered armor, removes the
chain of office from beneath his breastplate, lays it onto
the table in front of Craig and the other nobles, and walks
from the room. Hamish and Stephen see the satisfaction on
the nobles' face, and follow William out.
Hamish and Stephen move out into the hallway after Wallace --
but he is gone.
Thunder, the sound of driving rain. Snug by a massive fire
are Longshanks, his son Edward, and other advisors. On the
far side of the room, away from the fire, the Princess stands
at the window and watches the rain against the panes.
ADVISOR
Their nobles have sworn allegiance,
M'lord. Every last one.
Longshanks savors the victory -- and gloats to his son.
LONGSHANKS
Now we kill two birds at one stroke.
We recruit from Scotland for our
armies in France.
EDWARD
The Scots will fight for us?
LONGSHANKS
What choice do they have? Now they
must serve us or starve.
EDWARD
But if we have not caught Wallace --
LONGSHANKS
(exploding)
He is gone! Finished! Dead! If he
has not yet bled to death or had his
throat cut for him, he will not
survive the winter. It is very cold --
is it not, our flower?
From the other side of the window, we see the Princess as
she hears him, but doesn't turn around. She looks at the
window, we snow swirling among the raindrops outside. Her
eyes glisten, and her breath fogs the glass.
The elder Bruce, his decaying features sagging from his face,
stares across the table at his son.
LEPER
I am the one who is rotting. But I
think your face looks graver than
mine.
ROBERT
He was so brave. With courage alone
he nearly won.
LEPER
So more men were slaughtered
uselessly!
ROBERT
He broke because of me. I saw it. He
lost all will to fight.
LEPER
We must have alliance with England
to prevail here. You achieved that!
You saved your family, increased
your lands! In time you will have
all the power in Scotland!... Yet
you grieve.
ROBERT
In my heart I had begun to hope that
he would never break.
LEPER
All men lose heart. All betray. It
is exactly why we must make the
choices we make.
Mornay, in an opulent bedchamber hung with tapestries and
carpeted with eastern rugs, lies in bed, tossing in the
restless sleep of a tortured soul.
He thinks he hears galloping. In SUBLIMINAL FLASHES he DREAMS
of Wallace riding toward him.
He wakes, and listens to a strange noise. It is hoofbeats!
Coming closer. He hears shouts too, screams from below --
and those strange, approaching hoofbeats...
WALLACE, ON HORSEBACK
rides up the circular stairs inside Mornay's castle! His
horse bounds up the stone -- Mornay's guards are behind him,
on foot, pursuing.
At a landing, Wallace cuts down a guard, and gallops higher.
IN HIS BED, MORNAY
sits up gawking as the door explodes inward and Wallace rides
through! Mornay is frozen. Wallace slashes him down.
Out in the corridor, the guards gather; they have Wallace
trapped. He covers the horse's eyes with a cloth and spurs
his flanks. The blind animal runs through the window!
Robert is in his central room; he hears the chanting from
far below. Old Craig enters.
ROBERT
Is it true about Mornay?
Craig hands him the bloody nightshirt Mornay was wearing.
ROBERT
And he rode through the window? My
God.
He can't hide his admiration. From below, he still hears the
people CHANTING...
Inside the great hall are thirty killers, led by their CHIEF
ASSASSIN, a cutthroat with a mangled eye.
CHIEF ASSASSIN
We came in small groups, so the rebels
would not suspect.
PRINCESS
And you have reached Wallace's men?
CHIEF ASSASSIN
We tell the villagers, and the
traitors pass it on. All that's left
is for you to say where.
They are in the old secret cave; rain is falling, but it's
dry inside, with a campfire smoldering at the entrance.
WALLACE
Thanks for the food and drink. And
for bringing 'em yourselves.
HAMISH
We're here to stay. We don't care to
live, if we can't fight beside ya.
Stephen pulls a jug of whiskey from his pocket. He swigs,
hands it to Hamish for a chug, then to Wallace, who declines,
but smiles for the first time in many weeks.
HAMISH
There is... one thing, William.
Longshanks is offering a truce. He
has dispatched his daughter-in-law
as his emissary, and she has sent
word that she wishes to meet you --
in a barn.
Wallace frowns; a barn?
He sits by a palace hearth, where a huge blaze burns; still
he's huddled beneath a blanket, and coughing blood. But he
ignores the ice in his lungs; his mind is plotting.
William, Hamish, and Stephen are on their horses, looking
down at the road leading into the city. Wallace hands his
dagger to Stephen, and unbuckles his broadsword and gives it
to Hamish.
HAMISH
Keep these. We're going too.
WALLACE
No. One of us is enough.
Wallace hugs them, first Stephen, then Hamish. Tears roll
down Hamish's cheeks. With one last look at his friends,
Wallace rides away.
Robert the Bruce and Craig stand at the hearth, tense.
CRAIG
He won't come.
ROBERT
He will. I know he will.
They hear the approach of a single horse. The Bruce looks
out to see Wallace arriving.
ROBERT
Here. And unarmed. My God, he has a
brave heart.
OUTSIDE THE HOUSE
Wallace dismounts and enters.
Wallace appears at the doorway into the main room, and stops.
Bruce faces him. The eyes of BOTH MEN meet, saying everything.
Wallace steps into the room. He sees something flicker onto
Bruce's face -- shame -- just as henchmen in the rafters
drop a weighted net and it envelopes Wallace.
English soldiers spring from the closets, run down the stairs,
and tumble over him, ripping at his clothes, searching as if
broadswords might spring from his boots.
They bind Wallace hand and foot. He stares at Robert the
Bruce, who averts his eyes. The soldiers hurry Wallace out
the back, where others are bringing up horses. Robert grabs
the English Captain of the soldiers.
ROBERT
He is not to be harmed. I have your
king's absolute promise that he will
be imprisoned only!
The Captain looks at Bruce the way the High Priest must have
looked at Judas, and leaves.
CRAIG
Now we will have peace.
Robert the Bruce spots something on the floor that must have
fallen from Wallace's clothes as they grabbed him; Bruce
lifts the white handkerchief, and sees the familiar thistle
embroidered on it.
Edward inspects his father, who lies semiconscious in bed,
breath rattling ominously in his chest. Edward approves.
The Princess hurries up to her husband as he leaves the king's
bedroom, and follows him down the hall to his own.
PRINCESS
Is it true? Wallace is captured?
EDWARD
Simply because he eluded your trap,
do you think he is more than a man?
My father is dying. Perhaps you should
think of our coronation.
PRINCESS
When will his trial be?
EDWARD
Wallace's? For treason there is no
trial. Tomorrow he will be charged,
then executed.
With a faint smile, he shuts his bedroom door in her face.
The Bruce is incredulous, yelling at Craig.
ROBERT
Longshanks promised!
CRAIG
You are surprised he would lie?
Balliol was murdered in a church
yesterday. You are Longshanks' new
designate. You will be king.
Wallace stands in medieval restraints worthy of Hannibal
Lecter. Before him are six scarlet-robed royal magistrates.
ROYAL MAGISTRATE
William Wallace! You stand in taint
of high treason.
We PUSH IN on the iron mask that binds his face. We can only
see his eyes -- but they are bright.
WALLACE
Treason. Against whom?
MAGISTRATE
Against thy king, thou vile fool!
Hast thou anything to say?
WALLACE
Never, in my whole life, did I swear
allegiance to your king --
MAGISTRATE
It matters not, he is thy king!
WALLACE
-- while many who serve him have
taken and broken his oath many times.
I cannot commit treason, if I have
never been his subject!
MAGISTRATE
Confess, and you may receive a quick
death. Deny, and you must be purified
by pain. Do you confess? ...DO YOU
CONFESS?!
WALLACE
I do not confess.
MAGISTRATE
Then on the morrow, thou shalt receive
they purification... And in the end,
I promise you'll beg for the axe.
Wallace is alone in his cell, still in the garish restraints.
We can only see his eyes, as he prays.
WALLACE
I am so afraid... Give me strength.
OUTSIDE THE CELL DOOR
The jailers jump to their feet as the Princess enters.
JAILER
Your Highness!
PRINCESS
I will see the prisoner.
JAILER
We've orders from the king --
PRINCESS
The king will be dead in a month!
And his son is a weakling! Who do
you think will rule this kingdom?
Now OPEN THIS DOOR!
The jailer obeys. The Princess can barely contain her shock
at the sight of Wallace; the jailers snatch him upright.
JAILER
On your feet, you filth!
PRINCESS
Stop! Leave me!
(they hesitate)
There is no way out of this hell!
Leave me with him!
Reluctantly the jailers shuffle out of the cell, but they
can still see her back and hear her. Looking at Wallace's
eyes through the mask, she can't quite hold back her tears --
dangerous tears, that threaten to say too much. Wallace tries
to distract her.
WALLACE
M'lady... what kindness of you to
visit a stranger.
PRINCESS
Sir, I... come to beg you to confess
all, and swear allegiance to the
king, that he might show you mercy.
WALLACE
Will he show mercy to my country?
Will he take back his soldiers, and
let us rule ourselves?
PRINCESS
Mercy... is to die quickly. Perhaps
even live in the Tower. In time, who
knows what can happen, if you can
only live.
WALLACE
If I swear to him, then everything I
am is dead already.
She wants to plead, she wants to scream. She can't stop the
tears. And the jailers are watching.
WALLACE
Your people are lucky to have a
princess so kind that she can grieve
at the death of a stranger.
She almost goes too far now, pulling closer to him -- but
she doesn't care. She whispers, pleading...
PRINCESS
You will die! It will be awful!
WALLACE
Every man dies. Not every man really
lives.
She pulls out a hidden vial, and whispers...
PRINCESS
Drink this! It will dull your pain.
WALLACE
It will numb my wits, and I must
have them all. If I'm senseless, or
if I wail, then Longshanks will have
broken me.
PRINCESS
I can't bear the thought of your
torture. Take it!
On the verge of hysteria, she presses the vial to the air
hole at his mouth and pours in the drug. The jailers, seeing
suspicious movement, shift inside the cell; she backs up,
her eyes wide, full of love and goodbye. From inside the
mask, he watches her go. When the door CLANGS shut, he spits
the purple drug out through the mouth hole.
Longshanks lies helpless, his body racked with consumption.
Edward sits against the wall, watching him die, glee in his
eyes. The Princess enters, and marches to the bedside.
PRINCESS
I have come to beg for the life of
William Wallace.
EDWARD
You fancy him.
PRINCESS
I respect him. At worst he was a
worthy enemy. Show mercy... Oh thou
great king... and win the respect of
your own people.
Longshanks shakes his head.
PRINCESS
Even now, you are incapable of mercy?
The king can't speak. But hatred still glows in his eyes.
The princess looks at her husband.
PRINCESS
Nor you. To you that word is as
unfamiliar as love.
EDWARD
Before he lost his powers of speech,
he told me his one comfort was that
he would live to know Wallace was
dead.
She leans down and grabs the dying king by the hair. The
guards flanking the door start forward but the Princess's
eyes flare at them with more fire than even Longshanks once
showed -- and the guards back off. She leans down and hisses
to Longshanks, so softly that even Edward can't hear...
PRINCESS
You see? Death comes to us all. And
it comes to William Wallace. But
before death comes to you, know this:
your blood dies with you. A child
who is not of your line grows in my
belly. Your son will not sit long on
the throne. I swear it.
She lets go of the old king. He sags like an empty sack back
onto his satin pillows. Without even a look at her husband
she strides out of the room, with the rattling breath of the
dying king rasping the air like a saw.
