The Crow lands next to an open window. It perches on the edge,
looking into the loft.
SARAH (V.O.)
I just wish I understood what they were telling me.
CROW'S POV (ANAMORPHIC)
SARAH, early 20s, lies asleep in bed. She stirs, troubled by
uneasy dreams, rolls over, opens her eyes...
As Sarah rises the Crow flits away like yesterday's memory. Sarah's
not sure whether or not she dreamed the bird. GABRIEL, the cat
Sarah inherited from Eric and Shelly, is perched on the end of
the bed.
SARAH
Hey, Gabriel...
Sarah gives the cat an obligatory behind-the-ear scratch, then
climbs from bed, making her way across the loft.
SARAH'S ARTIST LOFT
is furnished in thrift-store treasures. The loft has an earthy
warmth to it, in stark contrast to the urban decay outside -
an island amidst a sea of unrest, dominated by an arching half-circle
window through which Sarah can view the local wildlife on the
streets below.
ON SARAH'S CANVASSES
Turbulent oils reminiscent of history's brooding symbolist painters.
Give Sarah's childhood inspiration, the subject matter is no
real surprise.
CAMERA ISOLATES a work-in-progress. The painting depicts a woman
resembling Sarah being cradled in the arms of her pale-faced
lover, surrounded by a sea of watchful dead.
SARAH
reaches the shower, strips off her clothes. Her back and upper
arms are decorated with graceful tattoo work - a pair of black
angel wings sweeping over her shoulder blades. She's got a ring
in her navel, another in a nipple...
In short, the skate-waif we knew back in Detroit has matured
quite a bit since that fateful Devil's Night. Sarah shuts here
eyes, turns her face up into the spray. For a brief second we
see a flash of...
Sarah's eyes snap open. She holds a hand out to the shower wall,
takes a moment to collect herself.
Troubled, Sarah climbs from the shower, shrugs on some clothes.
Among her accourterments is a necklace featuring a silver ankh,
the symbol of eternity.
As Sarah sites in front of her vanity we catch sight of the irony
mask that used to hang by Shelly's mirror. Next to the mask is
a...
TARNISHED WEDDING RING
Once Shelly's. There's an inscription inside - "FOREVER".
Sarah fingers the ring a moment, glancing at the irony mask.
Lots of memories. Lots of ghosts.
Gabriel creeps up, MEOWING forlornly.
SARAH
(WISTFULLY)
Me too.
She threads the ring onto her necklace, letting it fall next
to the ankh, then slips the silver chain over her head. Sarah
stands, pulls on a jacket, heads out.
CLOSE ON a sparking tattoo "gun", the needle WHIRRING as it travels
over a patch of Vaseline-smeared skin.
SARAH (V.O.)
Almost finished. Doing okay?
CUSTOMER (V.O.)
Yeah, stings a little.
SARAH (V.O.)
That's why they call me the Mistress of Pain.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL Sarah expertly guiding the needle, wearing
glasses, surgical gloves, concentrating.
Sarah's buzz-headed CUSTOMER sits in a ratty dentist's chair.
Sarah is finishing coloring a Japanese dragon which winds its
way over the man's forearm. She makes another line of color then
sits back, smoothing more Vaseline over the man's arm. She picks
up a jeweler's loupe, makes an adjustment on her needle...
Behind Sarah we glimpse the cluttered tattoo shop - walls covered
with sheets of flash (ready-made art), bookshelves crammed with
reference works. Sarah's partner, NOAH, a chain-smoking proto-punk
Brit, consults with a YOUNG GRUNGE COUPLE.
LATER -
Noah is closing up shop, while Sarah sterilizes some needles
in an autoclave.
NOAH
What a downer - this kid wanted me to tattoo "If you're reading
this, you're too close" on his bleedin' bum!
Sarah smiles. Noah fires up a fag, flops down into a dentist
chair. The two slip into a familiar, good-natured banter.
NOAH
Christ, I'm knackered.
SARAH
Beats pushing ink in Detroit.
NOAH
That it does, Princess, that it does.
(REMEMBERING)
Oh, I bought you a little present...
Noah reaches into his shirt pocket and pulls something out. It's
a handmade candy sugar skull with a little strip of paper glued
to the bottom - a fortune.
NOAH
They do 'em for the Day of the Dead.
(tossing the skull to Sarah)
Nice, huh? Necrophagia, Princess. Eat the dead.
SARAH
(reading fortune)
"Life is just a dream on the way to death." I like that.
Sarah studies the skull, then pops it in her mouth, nodding.
Noah rises, stretching.
NOAH
Want to grab a beer, then?
SARAH
No, I gotta go home. Haven't been sleeping much lately.
NOAH
So, what's the dirty dog's name?
SARAH
I've just been having some weird dreams.
(REFLECTING)
You ever dream that you're dying someone else's death?
Outside we hear a MOTORCYCLE pulling up, then someone KNOCKS
on the front door.
NOAH
(calling out)
Sorry, we're closed.
CURVE
appears outside. He POUNDS harder on the door.
CURVE
Open the fucking door!
NOAH
stands, moves to the door.
NOAH
Look, I said we're...
BANG! Curve kicks open the door and storms in. He PUNCHES Noah
in the nose, then heads straight for Sarah.
CURVE
You think what you did to me is funny? Some kind of joke?
SARAH
What are you talking about?!
CURVE
I'm talking about the fucking tattoo you gave me! I took off
the bandages. Look...!!!
Curve rips open his shirt, revealing his chest.
CURVE'S TATTOO
It's a crow, rendered in bold slashes of black. Or is it? Upon
closer examination the crow looks like something else - two demons
fighting. The design is a classic ambiguous figure - like the
picture of the woman in front of a vanity which can also be seen
as a skull.
SARAH
A crow...
Damn right, it's a crow. And did I ask for a fucking bird on
my chest? Did I?!
Sarah shakes her head.
CURVE
Then what-the-fuck is it doing there?!
SARAH
I don't know, I was just going from the design you gave me...
SMACK! Curve backhands Sarah across the face. Noah rushes forward,
blood still running from his nose.
NOAH
Stop it!
Curve pulls an automatic from his waist-band and points the gun
at Noah. Noah freezes...
CURVE
What's it going to be, hero? Ready to kiss your faggot-ass good-bye?
I think so. I think you're shitting yourself you're so goddamn
ready.
Curve snaps open an imp bag of his favorite drug, snorts up the
contents. He presses the gun against Noah's forehead.
SARAH (O.S.)
Over here, ass-hole...
As Curve turns, Sarah squeezes a bottle of tattoo ink into the
killer's eyes, blinding him.
CURVE
Agh!!! SHIT!!!
Sarah plants one of her Doc Marten boots in Curve's groin. He
SCREAMS, doubles over. Sarah pulls the automatic from his grasp
and trains it on him.
SARAH
Get up.
Curve cups his balls, slowly rises. His eyes are glowing with
manic intensity. A slow smile creeps across Curve's face. He
backs away towards the front door.
CURVE
Shoulda killed me while you had the chance, sugarplum. Be seeing
you.
Curve smashes his fist into the neon sign, then ducks out thedoor.
Moments later we hear his motorcycle ROAR to life. He takes off,
ENGINE SCREAMING away into the night.
Sarah lowers the gun, takes a deep breath, looks to Noah.
SARAH
You okay?
Noah wipes his bloody nose, looks to the floor where Curve discarded
the drug sachet, shakes his head in disgust.
NOAH
Fuck me, wonder what they'll be snorting next?
Sarah shakes her head, at wits end.
SARAH
I just can't do this anymore... I'm so tired of this.
Noah pulls Sarah toward him, gives her a big hug.
NOAH
Easy there, luv. It'll all work out.
Sarah moves behind the wheel, dumps the gun on the seat, and
rests her head in her hands. As Sarah raises her head...
SARAH'S POV (THROUGH WINDSHIELD)
The Crow is perched on the hood of her car. Sarah HONKS her horn
in frustration. The Crow doesn't move.
SCRITCH! SCRITCH! All we see is black, then some vague, shiny
reflections...
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal a stag beetle, imprisoned within
a box, leashed to a nail with a piece of thread. We were tight
on its shiny carapace. The beetle strains at its leash, moving
in a perpetual circle around the nail.
CAMERA MOVES UP
over the side of the box. Although mere inches in height, this
enclosure might as well be the Great Wall as far as our little
member of the Coleoptera is concerned.
AS THE CAMERA CONTINUES TO PULL BACK
we see crime lord Judah Earl's lair in all its sepulchral glory...
Dark, filled with shadows. The decor is a cross between ruinous
palatial splendor and a SoHo industrial art installation. The
upper reaches of the campanile are laced with a spiderweb network
of steel girders.
Look close enough and you might see PEOPLE bound to the supporting
pillars, like the half-glimpsed shapes crouching at the foot
of your bed in the middle of the night.
VOICES draw our attention to an area partitioned off by chain-mail
curtains. CAMERA MOVES IN towards a break in the curtains. We
linger there for a tantalizing moment...
JUDAH (V.O.)
Talk to me, Sibyl. Tell me what you see.
SIBYL (V.O.)
I see Death returning from the veil of tears. He has your name
on his tongue.
Now we plunge in through the curtains...
The "camera" consists of a series of lenses and mirrors which
project images from the outside world onto a circular table,
offering the ultimate voyeuristic view of the crumbling cityscape.
TWO FIGURES stand with their backs to us, studying the camera's
view. The first is...
JUDAH EARL,
A sinewy, slash-mouthed Byronic figure with a guttural voice.
Old before his time, touched by childhood visions of his own
death. The tower is Judah's prison in more ways than one.
SIBYL, Judah's blind oracle, waits by his side. Attractive, though
of indeterminate sex. His/her dour features are hidden beneath
a black cowl.
JUDAH
(FATALISTIC)
It's finally beginning, isn't it? What mask will Death wear,
can you tell me that?
SIBYL
I see the face of one of your victims.
Judah lifts his head up and we see his luminous amber eyes for
the first time. A kind of madness dances within them.
JUDAH
All my sins remembered.
CUT TO:
Sarah sits in bed, cigarette burning in one hand, a half-filled
wine glass in the other. She turns out her light, looks to the
window and the cityscape beyond - as if the answers were lying
out there in the steam-cloaked streets.
CUT TO:
SOMEONE'S SPEED-INDUCED POV. Performers flaunt their flesh on
a raised stage. CROWDS OF SEXUAL LIBERTINES and CUTTING EDGE
FETISHISTS writhe as one on the dance floor. Lots of rubber,
latex strap bodices, Victorian hoop skirts - it's a modern-day
De Sade's wet-dream.
REVERSE ANGLE
on Curve as he pushes his way upstairs and through the tangle
of flesh.
He pulls up to a bar, takes a seat alongside Kali and Spider
Monkey (who's amusing himself with a Viewmaster). CLICK, CLICK
- we see
MONKEY'S POV - as the 3-D tableaus rotate into position
THE BARTENDER,
a barrel-chested Samoan, sets a drink down in front of Curve,
nods a greeting. Curve sits back, opens his shirt, nudges Spider
Monkey.
CURVE
Spider Monkey, what's this tattoo look like to you?
SPIDER MONKEY
This a test?
CURVE
Come on, man, just tell me what you see.
Spider Monkey inspects Curve's chest.
SPIDER MONKEY
A bird.
CURVE
(ANNOYED)
Think about it a minute. Don't you see two demons?
SPIDER MONKEY
Nope. I see a bird.
CURVE
Ah, fuck you, then.
Curve lifts up his beer bottle. ECU from within the beer as the
amber liquid rushes towards us...
DISSOLVE TO:
Sarah bolts up in bed, knocking her wine glass to the floor,
SHATTERING it. She's choking, gasping for breath. Her heart is
hammering within her chest.
SARAH
...ohgodohgodohgod...
Suddenly she catches sight of a shadow on the wall before her
- a GIANT BIRD slowly spreading its black wings.
Sarah turns to the window. The Crow is perched just outside.
SARAH
What do you want from me?!
The Crow CAWS, then takes flight.
CLOSE ON SARAH
Calm now, realization and a sense of purpose dawning.
CUT TO:
Danny stretched out on the floor of their garage, painting a
picture...
Danny and Ashe rough-housing, having a water fight...
Danny sitting in Ashe's lap as Ashe reads aloud from a story.
ASHE
(READING)
"...midway through our life's journey I came to myself within
a dark wood where the straight way was lost..."
Danny asleep, curled up next to his father. Ashe reaches out
and strokes Danny's hair...
CLOSE ON ASHE'S FACE
His dead eyes suddenly open. Confusion. Pain. Fear. A stream
of bubbles rushes from his mouth, obscuring our view.
ASHE'S POV
As the bubbles clear, Danny's face comes into focus just a few
inches from his own.
Ashe panics, jerks back. The razor-wire barbs cut into his flesh.
The more he struggles, the tighter the coils become, slashing
his hands and face, shredding his clothes. He's caught in his
son's embrace, the two of them thrashing about in a grotesque
underwater ballet.
CUT TO:
Ashe opens his eyes. The mud-silt which covers his face has dried
and cracked, causing it to crumble away in flakes.
Ashe is lying on a cot in the middle of the loft. We see scattered
images: candles burning, a reilgious altar overflowing with trinkets,
mirrors, mannequins, canvases, and finally...
GABRIEL
perched at the end of the bed, watching Ashe intently.
SARAH
sits on the other side of the loft in a paint-smeared work-shirt,
brush in hand. She's studying a half-finished canvas, contemplating
her next move.
CANVAS
The eerie scene depicting a woman on her death-bed being cradled
in the arms of her ghostly lover.
Sarah tenses, feeling Ashe's eyes burning into the back of her
neck. She turns around, sees Ashe.
ASHE
(DISORIENTED)
...who are you?
SARAH
My name's Sarah. I had a dream about you. I saw them shoot you
and your son...
(BEAT)
...I saw you drowning.
Ashes shuts his eyes a moment, trying to recall the imagery.
Ashe looks down at his chest, tracing his fingers over the area
where bullet holes should be. Instead, he finds a series of indented
welts.
ASHE
How did I survive?
Sarah suddenly comes to the terrible realization that Ashe does
not know he has died.
SARAH
(coming towards him)
You didn't.
Ashe looks up at Sarah, uncomprehending.
SARAH
You're dead.
ASHE
No...
Ashe stands, enraged. He starts toward Sarah. She backs away...
ASHE
Stop looking at me that way -- stop looking -- this isn't real,
none of this is real! I'm dreaming this.
SARAH
(shaking her head, frightened)
No.
The two of the struggle a moment, Ashe pushes Sarah back. Sarah
reaches for him, trying to restrain him, trying to somehow keep
his rising terror in check... she's not getting through to him,
he can't be made to listen...
Finally, Sarah grabs a kitchen knife from the counter and plunges
it into Ashe's chest.
Ashe gasps. He stares down at the incongruous sight of a knife-handle
stickout out from his sternum, then he yanks the knife back out.
No pain. No wound. A moment of shock, then...
ASHE
(looking at her, a tortured whisper)
I'm dreaming this.
Sarah tries to reach for Ashe again. He tears away from her,
flinging her back and running for the door.
Sarah rushes to the window, watching Ashe run. She SEES the Crow
perched below her. It takes wings, flying after Ashe...
CUT TO:
As light spills in, we catch a glimpse of the humble auto repair
garage - tools, a few wrecks-in-progress, a motorcycle...
CAMERA ISOLATES a tempera painting on the floor that's been executed
on construction paper. A brush and a collection of paint canisters
are scattered around it, like the kind you might find in a primary
school art class. Ashe kneels next to the painting...
CLOSE ON PAINTING
An image rendered by a child's optimistic imagination - a crude
father and sone, respectively labeled "DAD" and "ME". A FOOTPRINT
mars the otherwise perfect memento. Ashe touches the figure labeled
"ME", which triggers...
Ashe is working beneath a car. Danny is sprawled on the floor.
He holds up the painting in question.
DANNY
Hey, Dad...what color should I make the sun?
ASHE
Blue.
DANNY
There's no such thing.
ASHE
(PLAYFUL)
No. Well there should be.
Just then we hear a GUNSHOT coming from outside.
DANNY
(wide eyed)
What was that?
Danny climbs to his feet, moves outside...
ASHE
Danny, wait!
Ashe slides out from under the car.
Ashe is tearing the place apart, sobbing, knocking over racks
of tools. Finally, he sinks to his knees, his face a mask of
tears.
Ashe spins, murderous rage in his eyes. Never startle an animal,
right?
SARAH
stands in the doorway.
ASHE
Why are you here?
SARAH
I don't know.
She stops herself -- she does know, she just didn't want to admit
it to herself.
SARAH
I want to help you. I need to.
Sarah approaches, dropping by Ashe's side. She sees Danny's painting
which Ashe cradles protectively.
Ashe looks up at Sarah, his eyes full of questions.
ASHE
Everything's so confused...
(anguished, touching the drawing)
Danny...
SARAH
He's not here anymore.
Sarah draws closer, touched by Ashe's inner struggle. She reaches
out to him, drawing him into her arms. He stares up at her, eyes
distant.
ASHE
There's no moon...
Sarah touches Ashe's face, calming him, trying to reach through
his pain.
SARAH
You've been given another chance, Ashe -- to put the wrong things
right...
Sarah's eyes drop to the canisters of paint which have been scattered
nearby. She reaches for the canister of white and unscrews the
lid, dipping her fingers inside...
Sarah's re-creation of the irony war mask has an oddly ritualistic
feel to it. Yet the act is also quite erotic, for the mutual
attraction between these two battered souls is almost palpable.
As Sarah continues to speak, she begins to paint Ashe's face
using Danny's art supplies.
We see this transformation in bits and pieces - an eye here,
fingers dipping into the canister of white there, ruby lips being
smeared with black...
...the face that is taking shape is both similar to and different
from Eric's. It's the legacy of the Crow, as funneled through
Ashe's own, unique pain.
SARAH
I believe there've always been people like you...
Sarah has finished. She sits back, surveying her work...
SARAH
It's the pain that brings people back. It makes us strong again.
CLOSE ON ASHE'S FACE as he turns towards us. A slash of light
illuminates the signature black and white war-paint of the Crow
in all its glory. Ashe looks like a dark saint.
CUT TO:
CA-CHUNK, CA-CHUNK, CA-CHUNK. CLOSE ON a sheet of glassine drug
bags as a hand-powered printing press comes down, mass-producing
the image of the imp giving us the thumbs up...
PULL BACK TO REVEAL the lab set up in a maze of barrells. The
walls are stained from the toxic fumes. Blacked-out windows sweat
with moisture. There are heating mantles rigged with flasks and
condensers, vacuum pumps - along with ingredients like battery
acid, paint thinner, and Epsom salts. Nearby are dozens of 50-gallon
drums containing the finished product.
Spider Monkey is working away at the printing press, pausing
to snoot some of Judah's drug. Nearby is an old TV featuring
lurid videos of amateur bull riding - we watch as a drunken participant
gets gored.
Suddenly the power in the lab goes out, the TV screen sputters
and goes dark.
SPIDER MONKEY
Ono!
ASHE (O.S.)
'My mother was accursed the night she bore me and I am faint
with envy of all the dead'.
Spider Monkey whirls around, startled. Ashe is sitting cross-legged
on one of the tables, grinning like a black leather Buddha.
ASHE
Tell me, Monkey. Does the corpse have a familiar face?
SPIDER MONKEY
Who the fuck are you?
ASHE
You have to learn to look beyond the mask.
Ashe jumps down from the table, walking into the light. Spider
Monkey's eyes widen in recognition.
SPIDER MONKEY
No way, man...we put you under...you and that little snot-nosed
kid...
Ashe dips his hand into one of the 50-gallon drums. He blows
a handful of the Trinity dust at Spider Monkey. Spider Monkey,
terminally spooked, reaches back to the counter behind him, searching
for something...
ASHE
Looking for this?
Ashe holds up a pistol and puts it to his head.
ASHE
(an evil grin)
Don't try this at home, kids.
BOOM! ASHE
puts a bullet through his own forehead. His head snaps backward
and his body collapses onto the floor. Spider Monkey creeps forward
toward Ashe's body...
ASHE
springs from the ground, SLAMMING Spider Monkey against a table
of chemicals. Bottles SHATTER on the floor, spilling their toxic
contents.
SPIDER MONKEY
What are you?! What the fuck are you?!
Ashe leans in so he's eye to eye with Spider Monkey.
ASHE
I wasn't sure at first. Now I know. I'm the boiling man, Monkey.
I'm the plague of Darkness and the death of the first-born. All
your nightmares rolled into one.
Ashe removes a wooden match from his inside coat pocket. He scrapes
his thumb-nail over the head, igniting it.
SPIDER MONKEY
Whoa...this shit's flammable! Look, look, what do you want?
ASHE
The others. Who are they?
SPIDER MONKEY
Nemo. Kali. Judah. And Curve.
ASHE
I'll start with Nemo, then work my way up the food chain. Where
is he?
SPIDER MONKEY
Nemo? Nemo's an old gash-hound. He hangs out at the Peep-O-Rama
on Deacon Street!
WHOOSH! Ashe blows the match out.
ASHE
Congratulations, monkey. You just bought yourself a fighting
chance.
Ashe reaches into his coat pocket, pulling out a deck of cards.
He fans them out, points...
ASHE
Pick a card, monkey.
Spider Monkey slowly extends his hand, half-expecting Ashe to
pounce on him. He pulls a card out.
Spider Monkey tosses the card down, face up. He's got the Jack
of Hearts. he smiles tentatively. Ashe pulls out a card of his
own and flips it around - the King of Clubs.
ASHE
Lady Luck's a bitch.
Ashe produces another wooden match.
SPIDER MONKEY
Aw, Jesus, c'mon, man!
ASHE
You're wasting your breath, angelito. Nobody's up there listening.
CLOSE ON MATCH
as Ashe scrapes his thumb-nail over the head...
Sarah is working at one of the drawing tables. Noah is mixing
pigments.
SARAH'S SKETCH PAD
She's working on a rendering of Ashe. She sits back...
SARAH
...and all the world will be in love with night...
SARAH STARES AT THE DRAWING.
SARAH
Do you believe in fate, Noah?
NOAH
(CONSIDERING)
Seeems to me it's more a question of fate believing in you.
Sarah rises, reaching for her bag. As she heads for the exit,
Noah reaches for the sketch. He smoothes it out, studies the
image awhile as we...
CUT TO:
TWO ZIPPER-MASKED WOMEN are frolicking on a bed, acting out an
elaborate bondage fantasy. Pull back to include...
A VIDEO CAMERA
recording the pornographic act for posterity. Pull further back
to include...
JUDAH
lounging on a couch a few dozen yards away, watching the women
on four video monitors, detached and twice removed from the sex
play.
CURVE
enters from out of the shadows. Judah looks up to him.
CURVE
Bad news.
JUDAH
Illuminate me.
CURVE
Someone torched the lab on Manchester. Spider Monkey's a fucking
crispy critter.
JUDAH
Monkey I could care less about. What about our merchandise?
CURVE
A total loss.
SIBYL (O.S.)
He left a sign, didn't he?
Judah looks to Sibyl who is standing nearby.
CURVE
(rising, uneasy)
I don't know what you're talking about.
SIBYL
Yes you do. You've seen it.
Sibyl points an accusing finger at Curve's chest.
SIBYL
You've been marked.
CURVE
(even more agitated)
Jesus Christ, Judah, why the fuck to you listen to her?!
JUDAH
Because she speaks the truth.
Judah rises swiftly from his chair. He snags a handful of Curve's
shirt and rips it open, revealing the Crow tattoo.
JUDAH
What's this, Curve? A beauty mark?
SIBYL
Your enemy wears the mask of the Crow. The bird of ill-omen.
CLOSE ON Judah as the words sink in. He strides across the floor,
sweeping aside one of the curtains surrounding the camera obscura.
JUDAH
The Crow. Death's avatar. I've heard the legends.
JUDAH
looks down at a view of the seething landscape.
JUDAH
Let him come, then.
CUT TO:
Nemo enters a cramped booth, clutching a handful of tokens embossed
with the Peep-O-Rama eye logo on them. There's a seat, a box
of Kleenex, a phone, and a grimy Plexiglas window with a metal
shutter over it.
Nemo starts popping tokens into the slot next to the window,
pockets the rest of them.
With a WHIR the metal shutter rises, revealing a WOMAN in a garter-belt
get-up perched on a stool. In a forgiving light, she might even
be beautiful.
An LED display starts counting down from sixty - the seconds
remaining on the metered shutter. Nemo picks up the receiver.
NEMO
You got a name?
WOMAN
Holly Daze. Do you want me, baby?
NEMO
I need to see some sugar.
Holly shrugs out of her bra, plants her scuffed-up high heels
on either side of the window, runs her hands up and down her
body, utters some tired-ass MOANS.
NEMO
Right on, sister...
Nemo unbuckles his belt, drops his drawers...
HOLLY
(eyeing his endowment)
Mmmm. Is that for me?
NEMO
Yeah, we're gonna celebrate Christmas a little early this year.
HOLLY
Keep doing that, honey, you'll go blind.
CUT TO:
Holly is still MOANING. Over on the LED display, Nemo's time
has just about expired.
HOLLY
Time's almost up, lover. Better hurry up with those tokens.
NEMO
Shitfire...
Nemo fumbles with his pants, scoops out some more tokens...
Too late, the shutter is already closing. Nemo feeds some more
tokens into the slot. Nothing happens. Nemo punches the LED display.
NEMO
Come on, fucker!
The shutter starts rattling up again, only this time...
ASHE
is standing on the other side of the Plexiglas. His mouth splits
into an evil grin.
ASHE
"Do you want me, baby?"
Nemo's eyes just about pop from his skull.
NEMO
You.
ASHE
Me.
CRASH! Ashe slams his fists through the Plexiglas window, reaching
for Nemo's throat.
Nemo comes flying out the booth door. He struggles to rise. A
CHORUS OF ORGASMIC SIGHS and cheesy SURF MUSIC drifts out from
the other booths.
ZEKE
(o.s.)
Hey, mime boy.
AT THE FRONT COUNTER.
ZEKE, the Peep-O-Rama's corpulent manager, is cradling a sawed-off
shotgun. BOOM! He blows a blast into Ashe's chest!
Ashe starts toward Zeke, unfazed. Zeke moves to fire again...
Ashe snatches the shotgun from the fat man's grasp, smashing
him in the face with the butt-end. Zeke falls back into a video
display, sending an avalanche of porno tapes raining down on
top of him.
Seizing the moment, Nemo rushes for the exit...
Ashe spins, pumps the shotgun, blows out one of Nemo's kneecaps.
Nemo collapses on the floor, wailing like a child. Ashe strides
over to him.
ASHE
One crow sorrow...
He HEAVES Nemo through a glass display booth filled with sex
toys. Ashe punctuates each line of the nursery rhyme with a new
assault on Nemo.
ASHE
...two crows joy...
Nemo starts dragging his broken body across the floor. He finds
himself face to face with an anatomically-correct blow-up sex
doll - the kind with a built-in pre-recorded memory chip.
DOLL
Ooh, oh baby, I like it like that. You're so good. You're so
good...
ASHE
Three crows a letter, four crows a boy...
Ashe HEAVES Nemo back the other way, sending him SMASHING into
the front counter. Peep-O-Rama tokens go flying, bouncing and
spinning every which way...
CLOSE ON A SPINNING TOKEN
On one side of the coin the eye is open, on the other it's closed
- this creates the illusion of the eye blinking.
ASHE
Five crows silver, six crows gold...
Nemo utters a half-sob and rolls over, feebly wiping away the
blood which is clouding his eyes.
ASHE
Seven crows a secret never to be told.
NEMO
...please, please just stop...
Ashe pries open Nemo's eyes with his fingers.
ASHE
You killed my son, Nemo. You took away the only piece of light
left in my soul.
NEMO
We had to! Judah's orders. Never leave any witnesses! We didn't
have a choice!
ASHE
We always have a choice.
Ashe plunges his fingers into Nemo's eyes - killing him off-camera.
He lifts up his now blood-covered hands and turns...
Just then, Holly Daze bursts out into the hall. She sees Ashe
and YELPS, certain her number's up. Ashe grabs her by the wrist,
spinning her around.
HOLLY DAZE
(CRINGING)
...no...
Ashe touches her face and sees a split-second FLASH of...
HOLLY DAZE DANCING
Jump-cut bump and grind, CAT-CALLS, LAUGHTER, the distorted faces
of men leering with their hungry eyes, tongues and sweaty palms
and heavy breath and I wanna be your fucking dog, baby, and...
BANG! ASHE
shuts his eyes, reeling...
Ashe looks up at Holly - one victim to another. His eyes burn
a laser beam into her soul.
ASHE
If you value what you've lost, you'll walk away from this place
and never look back.
Holly Daze nods with conviction. Ashe releases her. She bolts
like a rabbit flushed from cover.
CUT TO:
Kali and Curve move down the dark corridor. The PORN ACTRESS
VOICES from the vid-booths continue their ORGIASTIC MOANS, but
one voice in particular stand out.
KALI
Nemo?
DOLL'S VOICE
Ooh, oh baby, you're so good...
CAMERA FINDS NEMO'S BODY
at the end of the corridor, lounging in the arms of the sex doll
which is still repeating its tinny refrain. Nemo's neck has been
snapped and his head hangs at an awkward angle.
DOLL
...oh! Oh yea, that's the spot. Do me, baby. Do me.
There's a folded piece of paper shoved into Nemo's mouth. Curve
pries it out. The paper unfolds like one of those snowflake cut-outs
we used to make in grade school - only this cut-out is of a crow.
Written across the paper crow are the following words:
" I KNOW WHY JESUS WEPT"
A phone on the wall is RINGING. RINGING and RINGING. Finally,
Curve leans in, snatches up he receiver...
ASHE'S VOICE
Do you know what they call a gathering of crows, Curve?
At the sound of Ashe's voice, Curve's eyes widen with fear.
ASHE'S VOICE
A murder. A murder of crows. Think about it.
CLICK! The line goes dead. Furious, Curve tears the phone from
the wall, HEAVING it across the porno shop.
CUT TO:
Ashe moves into the sanctuary. He watches from the rear, entranced.
PEOPLE are scattered amongst the pews.
At the altar is a lavish offrenda - an offering of food and drink
for the wandering dead decorated with sugar skulls and floral
garlands. Amidst the decorations are photos of departed loved
ones. There are tiers of candles surrounding these, scores of
them.
An ELDERLY PRIEST emerges from a confessional, looking to Ashe
with a raised eyebrow..."Next?".
PRIEST
Can I help you?
ASHE
I'm sorry, Father, I was just watching...
PRIEST
Our doors are open.
The Priest moves to a candelabra and lights some tapers.
ASHE
What is this for?
PRIEST
Dias de los Muertos, the Days of the Dead. We light the candles
for our loved ones - so that they might find their way back to
earth and share in the pleasures of the living.
Ashe watches an OLD WOMAN place a toy motorcycle in front of
a picture of a child.
PRIEST
Tomorrow night we will celebrate. The people will dance, sing...
(indicating Ashe's makeup)
...many will wear masks.
ASHE
Why?
PRIEST
Some spirits linger here too long. They become confused, mistaking
themselves for the living. They have to be frightened away.
The priest nods to Ashe and moves down the aisle to the next
candelabra.
A LITTLE BOY
is watching Ashe from one of the back pews. He clutches a striped
ball. He drops it.
The boy rolls the ball across the floor to Ashe. Ashe kneels
and catches it, rolling it back. The boy smiles.
BOY
Santa Muerte.
Unnerved, Ashe retreats out of the sanctuarly, letting the night's
shadows swallow him up once more.
CUT TO:
Sarah sits by her paintings. Gabriel suddenly stands, arching
his back, hair standing on end.
ASHE
appears on the ledge of the broken window, crouching there like
a gargoyle in silhouette.
SARAH
(hesitant, but relieved)
You came back...
ASHE
Heaven wouldn't have me and Hell was afraid I'd take the place
over.
Ashe drops into the loft.
ASHE
I needed to see you again.
Ashe moves towards Sarah's paintings, pausing to study the one
of the woman being cradled in the arms of her ghostly lover.
He touches the woman's face.
ASHE
She looks like you.
After a long moment, Sarah responds.
SARAH
I paint what I see.
Ashe approaches Sarah. He points to the wedding ring which hands
from her neck.
ASHE
Were you married?
SARAH
It belonged to a friend.
ASHE
Where are they now?
SARAH
A better place.
Sarah turns the ring around her finger, fidgeting with it.
SARAH
What about you?
ASHE
Danny's mother left after he was born. She was a drug addict.
SARAH
(NODDING)
I lost my mother the same way.
ASHE
Small world.
Sarah reaches for a cigarette and lights up, taking a long drag.
Ashe notices a number of scars on her forearm, possibly some
track marks...
Sarah catches him looking, self-consciously pulls her hand back.
SARAH
(meeting his gaze)
I left Detroit because I wanted to put the past behind me.
(STRUGGLING)
The problem is, I know how it ends. Blood. Violence. I don't
want a part of it anymore.
Gabriel approaches Ashe. He crouches, runs his fingers along
the cat's back.
ASHE
What happens to me when I finish what I'm supposed to do here?
SARAH
You go back.
ASHE
What if I don't want to go back?
Sarah looks away.
SARAH
Then you're damned
CLOSE ON A VIDEO MONITOR. We're watching the tape documenting
Ashe's death. We see Ashe's face sinking beneath the water's
surface. The image freezes.
CURVE (O.S.)
It was him. It was that son of a bitch we dumped off the pier.
I know it.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL Judah, Curve, and Kali gathered around the
monitor. Sibyl waits nearby. Curve is snapping open an envelope
of Trinity, sniffing up the contents.
JUDAH
I thought you killed him.
CURVE
I shot him in the head!
KALI
He's a ghost.
CURVE
No such thing as ghosts.
KALI
(POINTEDLY)
Then who killed Spider Monkey and Nemo?
Curve starts pacing, growing more apprehensive.
CURVE
All I know is, he's fucking with us. The Crow's his symbol, right?
That means I'm marked. It means he's coming for me now!
KALI
I thought you said you didn't believe?
Curve turns on Kali, furious, ready to strike her. In a flash,
Kali has one of her katanas out.
Curve backs away, bristling.
CURVE
Look, you want to tell yourselves some bullshit fairytales, that's
your business. But i'm not gonna sit here with a fucking target
on my chest. I'm going to take this motherfucker out!
SIBYL
You won't stop him with bullets or knives. He doesn't feel pain.
He doesn't bleed. Don't you see? His soul has crossed over. He's
come back from the other side.
Curve looks like he's going to be sick from fear. But Kali and
Judah are listening intently.l
JUDAH
So how do you stop a man who's already dead?
SIBYL
Can you look destiny in the eye without flinching?
Judah studies Sibyl's shadowed face.
JUDAH
You tell me.
A stare-down ensues. Judah doesn't avert his gaze.
SIBYL
The Crow is the source of his power - his link between this world
and the next. Sever that link and he's as vulnerable as the next
man.
CUT TO:
Ashe pushes through a curtain, turns towards Sarah's vanity --
SEES the knick-knacks and mementos gathered there, then SEES
the ceramic irony mask which hangs above. Ashe approaches, reaching
a hand out to trace its features.
At the bottom of the mirror, a FADED POSTCARD has been tucked
between the frame and the glass. Ashe pulls it free, studying
it...
CLOSE ON POSTCARD
A carnival midway set on the beach, people strolling along a
boardwalk, golden sand and blue skies. WORDS at the top of the
picture read: "WISH YOU WERE HERE".
ASHE
I've been here.
Ashe stares at the picture, entranced, caught up in a moment
of wistful nostalgia for the life he's lost.
ASHE
I took Danny last summer. We went up on the bike, rode all the
way up the coast...
(BEAT)
It was cold up there. I remember we could see each other's breath.
Ashe catches himself, setting the postcard down. He turns his
back to Sarah, hiding his face form her, overcome by emotion.
Sarah stands, drawing near. She reaches out to console him, touching
his shoulder. She alone, among all the souls of the world, understands
the isolation that is consuming Ashe.
SARAH
Look at me.
But Ashe won't.
SARAH
Ashe. Look at me.
Ashe finally turns around, a sense of deep and profound loss
in his eyes...
Something unspoken passes between them. Sarah leans into Ashe,
tentative, eyes searching. It's one of those fragile moments
where things could go either way. And then...
ASHE
(pulling back)
No...
(turning away)
We can't do this...
The spell has been broken. Ashe starts away from her.
ASHE
I have to finish what I started. I have to find the others.
SARAH
I know.
Ashe moves to the door, hesitant, a terrible sense of longing
gnawing at his heart.
SARAH
I wish I'd met you before.
Ashe nods, then turns to leave. There's nothing else to say.
Sarah watches from her window as Ashe strides to his motorcycle.
She raises her hand up, as if to say good-bye.
Judah moves back to the stag beetle, watching its Sisyphean efforts.
SCRITCH! SCRITCH!
JUDAH
So the Crow is Ashe's familiar...
(to Sibyl)
Can his power be taken?
SIBYL
The bird is the key, the life-force that flows within it...
JUDAH
(UNDERSTANDING)
The blood of the Crow.
Judah whirls around, his eyes glowing with a manic fervor.
JUDAH
(to Curve)
The tattoo on your chest, who gave it to you?
CURVE
Some bitch down at the Gargoyle, but what's that got to do with...
Judah grips Curve's shoulders tightly, shaking him.
JUDAH
Everything, you idiot! Find her. If she gave you his mark, then
she's connected to him in some way. She can lead us to him.
CUT TO:
SUPER TITLE:
"NOVEMBER 1ST - NOCHE DE LOS MUERTOS"
Curve and Kali have duct-taped Noah to one of the dentist chairs
- even his mouth and nose have been sealed shut. Curve lets Noah
thrash a moment, then violently rips the tape from Noah's face.
NOAH
(frightened, gasping)
Look, what do you people want?
CURVE
A house in the country, a dog, a wife and two kids...
(GRINS)
...your fucking head stapled to my saddlebags.
KALI
We're looking for Sarah. Where is she, Noah?
NOAH
I'm not going to tell you that...
KALI
Oh, but I think you are...
Kali sites astride Noah. She reaches for one of the tattoo machines.
She motions to Curve, who hits the treadlight foot switch. Noah
eyes the sparking tattoo machine with rising apprehension as
Kali moves it towards his face.
CLOSE ON THE NEEDLE
a vibrating blur just a few centimeters from Noah's blinking
eye. Noah tries to shut his eyes. Kali forces an eye open with
the thumb and forefinger of her other hand.
BACK TO SCENE
KALI
Last chance, "love".
NOAH
(DEFIANT)
Get bent, you dried-up bitch.
From behind, we see Kali lower the vibrating needle towards Noah's
eye. His SHRILL SCREAMS split the night as we...
CUT TO:
Curve makes his way to the bar. He rips open a glassine bag of
Trinity and vacuum snorts it. His eyes roll up in his head as
the chemicals flow. Another wave of pain washes over him. Curve
claws at his chest, falls against the bar...
CURVE
...goawaygoawaygoawaygoaway...
TIME SLOWS TO A CRAWL
The MUSIC fades to a muted echo of distant WAR DRUMS. As a feeling
of inexorable doom settles over him, Curve lifts his head and
sees...
ASHE
reflected in the bar mirror, materializing out of the narcotic
haze. He's wading through the ocean of bodies. In his face paint
and black leather Ashe looks like he's just another part of the
twisted scene. people are stroking him, brushing up against him
- like they can leech off some of his morbid angel charisma.
Ashe lifts his hand - he's clutching House o' Peep Zeke's sawed-off
shotgun.
Curve DIVES to the floor as Ashe's shotgun blast shatters the
bar mirror, taking out his own reflection. Curve rolls, climbs
to his feet, starts running...
The Samoan bartender grabs a semi-auto pistol, opens up on Ashe.
Now some of the other ARMED DOORMEN are FIRING too...
...but Ashe keeps on coming, trudging through the HAIL OF GUNFIRE.
Bullets are EXPLODING over his body at an insane rate. Ashe is
a human roman candle. Nothing is going to stop him from reaching
Curve, nothing.
The Samoan stops firing. He takes one look at Ashe, who's still
coming at them...
Fuck this. He turns tail and run.
Sarah is back at work on the painting of the woman being cradled
by her lover. Gabriel, who's lounging nearby, suddenly looks
up and HISSES.
UP ABOVE THEM
the Crow lands on the skylight, staring down at Sarah, watching...
There's a KNOCK at her door. Sarah approaches, looks through
the peephole...
SARAH
Who is it?
SARAH'S POV (THROUGH FISH-EYE PEEPHOLE)
Kali stands there, cradling an automatic. She's flanked by TWO
IDENTICAL TWIN THUGS. Kali FIRES into the lock...
Curve speeds into the dark tunnel, splashing through puddles
of water, whipping past graffiti. As he nears the mouth at the
other end, Curve brakes hard, TIRES SQUEALING, almost going down...
CURVE'S POV
We are now beneath the bridge. It's a stone-cold dead-end. The
roadway slopes sharply downward, spilling out into the concrete
river bed which is filled to capacity with rushing flood waters.
BACK TO SCENE
We hear the ROAR of an approaching motorcycle, then an engine
cutting out. Curve looks back the way he came...
AT THE OPPOSITE END OF THE TUNNEL
Ashe's siilhouette steps into view. He's on foot now, clutching
the sawed-off shotgun. He lets loose a LAUGH which chills Curve
to the bone.
ASHE
"I have a rendezvous with Death, on some scarred slope of battered
hill..."
Ashe starts into the tunnel. His WET FOOTSTEPS echo off the weeping
walls...
ASHE
"God knows, 'twere better to be deep where love throbs out in
blissful sleep, pulse nigh to pulse and breath to breath..."
As Ashe draws closer, his death-like face emerges from the gloom
- a ghastly visage floating in the ether...
ASHE
"But I have a rendezvous with Death. And I to my pledged word
am true..."
Ashe stops some twenty feet away, grinning like the Cheshire
Cat.
ASHE
"I shall not fail that rendezvous."
Silence like knives. Ashe and Curve facing one another. Curve
is tense, dry-mouthed...
CURVE
You think i'm afraid of you, you fucking freak?! YOU THINK I'M
AFRAID?!!
Curve SCREAMS and guns his cycle forward, rolling the throttle
all the way open - a kamikaze run aimed straight at Ashe.
Ashe stands his groupd, lifts the shotgun, FIRST at Curve's customized
teardrop gas tank. There's the woman doing the wild thing with
Death and...
BOOM! CURVE'S MOTORCYCLE
disintegrates beneath him, breaking apart into a RUSHING COMET
OF FLAMING WRECKAGE. Shrapnel skids along the tunnel walls, SPEWING
SPARKS.
CURVE
lies on the garbage-strewn tunnel floor in a spreading pool of
blood - burnt, battered, a barb of steel sticking up from his
chest. Still, Curve has one glorious, giddy moment where he thinks
he's actually succeeded in defeeating Ashe, then...
CURVE'S POV
as Ashe steps through the gasoline flames.
Curve's elation vaporizes.
ASHE
Can you hear me, Curve?
Curve offers a weak nod.
ASHE
You're going to die now.
Curve tries to speak, blood spills from his mouth. Ashe places
a finger to his lips.
Ashe drops down, kneeling over Curve's chest.
ASHE
People used to put coins in the mouths of the dead. Do you know
why? So they could pay the ferryman to take them across the river
Styx.
(reaching to Curve's ear)
What's this?
In a parody of a stage magician, Ashe retrieves one of the Peep-O-Rama
tokens from Curve's ear. The embossed eye logo flashes.
ASHE
Open your mouth, Curve.
Curve,s eyes are wide, filled with terror. He MOANS.
ASHE
Shhh. It's not so bad. Trust me. I've been there.
Curve slowly opens his mouth. Tears run from his eyes. Ashe places
the coin on Curve's tongue, like a priest administering a Holy
wafer.
Ashe stands, grabs Curve by the coat collar. He pulls him back
towards the end of the tunnel...
Ashe starts back into the tunnel. He pauses a moment, kneeling
down, lowering his head. Whether out of respect for the dead
or his own condition, we'll never know.
After a minute, Ashe lifts his head again and stands. It's time
to see his mission through to the end.
CUT TO:
Ashe is heading back from the river when he's struck by...
A VISION OF THE CROW'S POV OF SARAH
ASHE
is seeing what the crow is witnessing - Sarah in danger.
ASHE
Sarah!
Ashe starts to run, back toward his bike...
CUT TO:
Ashe stumbles through the doorway into the loft...
The loft has been trashed. Furniture turned over, paintings slashed,
the ceramic irony mask smashed into pieces...
ASHE
(alarmed, desperately looking for her)
Sarah?!
KALI (O.S.)
Sarah's gone, ghost man.
Ashe whirls around
KALI
who had been standing still amidst the shadows, now moves from
behind Sarah's paintings.
ASHE
Where is she?
KALI
Judah's tower. He's waiting for you there.
As Kali steps closer we see that she's dressed for war -- a katana
secured in a black scabbard, twin daggers on each hip, a bandoleer
of throwing stars.
ASHE
You took my son's life.
KALI
(GASPING)
Some people are born victims.
ASHE
It takes two to make a murder.
Kali unsheathes her katana. The blade edge catches the streetlight's
glare coming in from the window.
KALI
Shall we dance?
Kali comes at Ashe blindingly fast. She spins and cartwheels
end over end, somersaulting. As she lands, Kali shifts into Ginsu-mode,
her blade a whirling blur...
Ashe ducks under the blade, trapping Kali's sword arm. He twists
his hands, SNAPPING her arm...
As Kali CRIES OUT, Ashe pivots, THROWING HER towards the half-moon
window looking out over the street...
CUT TO:
Sarah's eyelids flutter open with a start. She's waking on the
heels of a dream.
PULL BACK to reveal Sarah curled up on the cold tile floor, a
number of candles burning nearby. Sarah sits up, disoriented.
Upon moving her arm she finds that it's been shackled to one
of the pillars via a long chain.
Sarah wastes a few moments tugging at her tether, trying to snap
one of the links, but it's no good.
Frustrated, Sarah looks around, trying to get her bearings...
SIBYL
is standing a few yards away, cloaked in darkness, head bowed.
Sarah didn't notice her at first.
SARAH
Where am I?
SIBYL
The Tower. Everyone finds their way here eventually.
Sarah rises from the floor, a little unsteady. She moves towards
Sibyl, reaches out to touch her shoulder. The prophetess abruptly
lifts her head, causing her hood to fall back. Sarah takes a
step back, GASPING...
SIBYL'S EMPTY EYE SOCKETS
have been sewn shut with black thread.
SARAH
My God. What happened to you...?
JUDAH (O.S.)
Fate happened to her.
Sarah spins...
JUDAH
emerges from the gloom, almost as if he were materializing from
the shadows themselves.
JUDAH
Sibyl's been cursed with the gift of prophecy. She sees things
that are fated to happen...
(BEAT)
She cut her eyes out with a carving knife because she wanted
to make the visions stop...
Judah brushes the back of his hand affectionately against Sibyl's
cheek.
JUDAH
...but that only made the visions stronger, didn't it, dear?
Sibyl turns her head away from Judah, shunning his caress.
SIBYL
I've learned to live with my affliction.
JUDAH
Don't we all.
Sarah backs away from Judah, wary.
SARAH
Judah Earl.
JUDAH
My reputation precedes me.
SARAH
(DISGUSTED)
I've seen what your drugs have done to this city.
JUDAH
(SHRUGGING)
I saw a need, I exploited it. It's all economics, Sarah. Supply
and demand.
SARAH
Why did you bring me here?
JUDAH
I'm glad you asked that, Sarah. You've got a very important part
to play in this little drama of ours. You see, I intend to capture
the Crow...
Judah draws near, devouring Sarah with his hungry eyes. USING
A JAGGED FINGERNAIL, HE INCISES A CROSS INTO HER FOREHEAD.
JUDAH (O.S.)
... and you, my dear, are the birdseed.
CUT TO:
The scene resumes. Sarah stares at Judah, horrified.
SARAH
Why are you doing this?
JUDAH
Have you ever read Dante's Inferno? It says that the only true
path through Hell lies at its center. If you want to escape it
-- you have to go further in.
Judah lowers himself into a chair.
JUDAH
When I was a boy I fell through the ice of a lake. I remember
seeing the sky through the ice above me, close enough to touch.
The world grew cold around me. Dark. Eventually my heart stopped
beating. And in that moment, I died.
Judah sweeps his hand through one of the candle flames, then
pinches the flame out of existence. A tiny wisp of smoke trails
up into shadow.
Judah settles back in his chair, overcome by a memory that for
him has never lost its vibrancy.
JUDAH
A half-hour later I awoke on an operating table. I had returned
to the world of flesh and bone -- But I brought a knowledge back
with me...
(tapping his forehead)
Forbidden knowledge.
Judah leans in close to Sarah, his lambent eyes glowing like
hot coals. As Judah continues, Sarah fingers the ankh which hangs
from her neck.
JUDAH
I've been living on borrowed time ever since. I've always known
Death would be coming for me.
(BEAT)
I see now that your friend is the one I've been waiting for.
SARAH
You can't stop him.
JUDAH
You're wrong, Sarah.
(RISING)
There is a way to defeat Death... and that's to trade places
with him.
Sibyl turns her head towards the east.
SIBYL
The Crow is coming.
Judah looks back at Sarah.
CUT TO:
The Crow enters through one of the openings in the grillework,
settling on one of the rafters.
CROW'S POV
Sarah sits within one of the pools of illumination far below,
still bound to the bed by the chain. Judah and Sibyl are nowhere
in sight.
THE CROW
flies down from the rafters, landing on the floor at Sarah's
feet. It CAWS at her, trying to communicate.
SARAH
...go...please go...
The Crow tilts its head as if trying to understand...
SARAH
(shaking her chain)
GO!!!
WHOOSH! A steel cage on a wire and pulley system CLATTERS down
from above, SLAMMING to the floor and trapping the bird within
it. The bird CAWS angrily, flitting from one side of the cage
to another, but its efforts are futile.
CROW'S POV (ANAMORPHIC)
as Judah emerges from the darkness, crouching down on the floor
to study the Crow. He grins.
JUDAH
Look who's come home to roost.
CUT TO:
Judah, now carrying the cage which contains the Crow, sweeps
aside the curtain of the camera obscura. He reaches up to a lever
which opens the camera's lens. Moonlight shines down on the camera
table. With another lever, Judah adjusts the camera's view.
CAMERA TABLE
The camera lens is now trained on the night sky. A churning landscape
of night-sky coulds drifts across the table's surface, creating
an eerie effect.
JUDAH
sets a package wrapped in velvet on the camera table. He peels
back the cloth, revealing a set of ornately decorated, tapered
daggers. He looks back at Sarah.
JUDAH
Do you know what these are called? Misericords. Wonderful name,
isn't it?
Judah removes one of the blades from its sheath, running the
glinting edge along his finger.
JUDAH In the Dark Ages, these were used to deliver the death
stroke to the mortally wounded. They were considered tools of
mercy.
Judah turns to the steel cage in which the Crow has been trapped.
He pulls on a leather falconer's glove and opens the door to
the cage. The Crow flaps his wings madly, desperately trying
to strike at Judah with its beak and claws...
... but Judah secures his grip around the bird's throat, pulling
it out. He pins the Crow to the focusing table of the camera
obscura with his gloved hand.
CUT TO:
Back to Judah and the Crow. The clouds being projected onto the
camera table (and subsequently the Crow itself) are rushing at
an unearthly speed. The create a surreal backdrop for the Crow's
frenetically beating wings - in effect, a mockery of the bird
flying.
JUDAH
Easy, little wing. It will all be over soon.
Judah plunges a second misericord into the Crow's left wing...
The Crow has now been crucified to the camera table, a misericord
staked through each wing.
CROW'S ANAMORPHIC POV
as Judah reaches for a third misericord. He raises it high above
his head, preparing for the coup de grace.
JUDAH
(WHISPERING)
Ashes, ashes, we all fall down...
As the dagger comes down we hear...
SARAH
(SCREAMING)
No!!!!
CUT TO:
The Crow is dead, transfixed by the gleaming misericords. Blood
is pooling beneath black flight feathers.
Judah steps back, momentarily overwhelmed by the enormity of
his crime.
JUDAH
It's done.
Judah looks to the camera obscura's table. The blood from the
Crow has completely covered the table's concave surface, filling
it to the brim like liquid in a shallow bowl. The end result
is an eerie reflecting pool.
AS WE WATCH, THE IMAGE OF THE CLOUDS
cast by the camera lens onto the table begins to ripple and dissolve,
only to be replaced by Judah's own, shimmering reflection.
BACK TO SCENE
With a shaking hand, Judah dips his fingers into the pooling
blood and begins to paint his face. A swatch of blood over one
eye, then a swatch over the other. A long, bloody smear over
his lips...
The action harkens back to the moment when Sarah painted Ashe's
face - a parallel ritual turned on its head.
CUT TO:
Judah turns towards us, his transformation now complete. We see
that he has painted himself a parody of Ashe's irony mask in
the Crow's own blood.
SARAH
watches with a mixture of mounting horror and morbid curiousity.
JUDAH
scoops up a handful of the Crow's blood and brings it to his
lips.
CLOSE ON JUDAH'S LIPS
as he drinks, letting the overflow trickle down over his chin
and neck.
CLOSE ON JUDAH'S FACE
his once-pallid features now glow with a kind of beatific radiance.
WE RISE UP
from Judah, up and up into the darkest reaches of his tower.
Judah is LAUGHING, laughing in the face of Death itself.
CUT TO:
Sarah sobs quietly, still chained to the pillar. A figure suddenly
appears at her side -- Sibyl. Sarah looks up...
SARAH
What...?
Sibyl produces a key from within her robes. She places the key
in the lock on Sarah's manacles. With a turn of the key, the
manacles fall away and Sarah is free.
Sarah looks back at the blind oracle, uncertain.
SARAH
Why are you doing this?
Sibyl fixes Sarah with her blind stare.
SIBYL
Ashe needs you now. More than ever.
Sibyl raises her other hand. She's holding one of the misericords
which she extends to Sarah.
SIBYL
Go to him.
Sarah takes the misericord and racees for the end of the campanile,
towards a beckoning doorway and a stairwell beyond. Printed on
a grime-smeared placard nearby are the words...
"THIS IS NOT AN EXIT"
Sarah rushes through the doorway, heedless.
CUT TO:
Sarah rushes into a rickety old elevator, pulling the accordion-style
security gate shut. She punches the "DOWN" arrow on the tarnished
control panel. With a lurch and HUM the elevator car starts its
journey downward.
Sibyl stands over the camera obscura. On the table's focusing
surface we see the street below.
ASHE
is carrying Sarah in his arms, moving through the crowd of silent
witnesses.
SIBYL
nods to herself, satisfied. We see what might be a trace of a
smile cross her lips.
Sibyl turns and exits the camera obscura.
Sibyl approaches the table where the stag beetle is tethered.
Removing a pair of scissors from within her robes, Sibyl cuts
the thread which binds the beetle.
THE STAG BEETLE,
free at last, quickly scurries out of the box and across the
table, disappearing into the shadows.
Sibyl follows suit, gathering her robes about her and stepping
on into the darkness.
DISSOLVE TO:
