PUSHING IN on one of the falling submersibles, called MIR ONE, right up to
its circular viewport to see the occupants.
INSIDE, it is a cramped seven foot sphere, crammed with equipment. ANATOLY
MIKAILAVICH, the sub's pilot, sits hunched over his controls... singing
softly in Russian.
Next to him on one side is BROCK LOVETT. He's in his late forties, deeply
tanned, and likes to wear his Nomex suit unzipped to show the gold from
famous shipwrecks covering his gray chest hair. He is a wiley, fast-talking
treasure hunter, a salvage superstar who is part historian, part adventurer
and part vacuum cleaner salesman. Right now, he is propped against the CO2
scrubber, fast asleep and snoring.
On the other side, crammed into the remaining space is a bearded wide-body
named LEWIS BODINE, sho is also asleep. Lewis is an R.O.V. (REMOTELY
OPERATED VEHICLE) pilot and is the resident Titanic expert.
Anatoly glances at the bottom sonar and makes a ballast adjustment.
CUT TO:
Lovett and Bodine jerk awake at the landing.
ANATOLY
(heavy Russian accent)
We are here.
5 MINUTES LATER: THE TWO SUBS skim over the seafloor to the sound of
sidescan sonar and the THRUM of big thrusters.
6 The featureless gray clay of the bottom unrols in the lights of the subs.
Bodine is watching the sidescan sonar display, where the outline of a huge
pointed object is visible. Anatoly lies prone, driving the sub, his face
pressed to the center port.
BODINE
Come left a little. She's right in front of us, eighteen meters. Fifteen.
Thirteen... you should see it.
ANATOLY
Do you see it? I don't see it... there!
Out of the darkness, like a ghostly apparition, the bow of the ship
appears. Its knife-edge prow is coming straight at us, seeming to plow the
bottom sediment like ocean waves. It towers above the seafloor, standing
just as it landed 84 years ago.
THE TITANIC. Or what is left of her. Mir One goes up and over the bow
railing, intact except for an overgrowth of "rusticles" draping it like
mutated Spanish moss.
TIGHT ON THE EYEPIECE MONITOR of a video camcorder. Brock Lovett's face
fills the BLACK AND WHITE FRAME.
LOVETT
It still gets me every time.
The image pans to the front viewport, looking over Anatoly's shoulder, to
the bow railing visible in the lights beyond. Anatoly turns.
ANATOLY
Is just your guilt because of estealing from the dead.
CUT WIDER, to show that Brock is operating the camera himself, turning it
in his hand so it points at his own face.
LOVETT
Thanks, Tolya. Work with me, here.
Brock resumes his serious, pensive gaze out the front port, with the camera
aimed at himself at arm's length.
LOVETT
It still gets me every time... to see the sad ruin of the great ship
sitting here, where she landed at 2:30 in the morning, April 15, 1912,
after her long fall from the world above.
Anatoly rolls his eyes and mutters in Russian. Bodine chuckles and watches
the sonar.
BODINE
You are so full of shit, boss.
7 Mir Two drives aft down the starboard side, past the huge anchor while
Mir One passes over the seemingly endless forecastle deck, with its massive
anchor chains still laid out in two neat rows, its bronze windlass caps
gleaming. The 22 foot long subs are like white bugs next to the enormous
wreck.
LOVETT (V.O.)
Dive nine. Here we are again on the deck of Titanic... two and a half miles
down. The pressure is three tons per square inch, enough to crush us like a
freight train going over an ant if our hull fails. These windows are nine
inches thick and if they go, it's sayonara in two microseconds.
8 Mir Two lands on the boat deck, next to the ruins of the Officer's
Quarters. Mir One lands on the roof of the deck hous nearby.
LOVETT
Right. Let's go to work.
Bodine slips on a pair of 3-D electronic goggles, and grabs the joystick
controls of the ROV.
9 OUTSIDE THE SUB, the ROV, a small orange and black robot called SNOOP
DOG, lifts from its cradle and flies forward.
BODINE (V.O.)
Walkin' the dog.
SNOOP DOG drives itself away from the sub, paying out its umbilical behind
it like a robot yo-yo. Its twin stereo-video cameras swivel like insect
eyes. The ROV descends through an open shaft that once was the beautiful
First Class Grand Staircase.
Snoop Dog goes down several decks, then moves laterally into the First
Class Reception Room.
SNOOP'S VIDEO POV, moving through the cavernous interior. The remains of
the ornate handcarved woodwork which gave the ship its elegance move
through the floodlights, the lines blurred by slow dissolution and
descending rusticle formations. Stalactites of rust hang down so that at
times it looks like a natural grotto, then the scene shifts and the lines
of a ghostly undersea mansion can be seen again.
MONTAGE STYLE, as Snoop passes the ghostly images of Titanic's opulence:
10 A grand piano in amazingly good shape, crashed on its side against a
wall. The keys gleam black and white in the lights.
11 A chandelier, still hanging from the ceiling by its wire... glinting as
Snoop moves around it.
12 Its lights play across the floor, revealing a champagne bottle, then
some WHITE STAR LINE china... a woman's high-top "granny shoe". Then
something eerie: what looks like a child's skull resolves into the
porcelain head of a doll.
Snoop enters a corridor which is much better preserved. Here and there a
door still hangs on its rusted hinges. An ornate piece of molding, a wall
sconce... hint at the grandeur of the past.
13 THE ROV turns and goes through a black doorway, entering room B-52, the
sitting room of a "promenade suite", one of the most luxurious staterooms
on Titanic.
BODINE
I'm in the sitting room. Heading for bedroom B-54.
LOVETT
Stay off the floor. Don't stir it up like you did yesterday.
BODINE
I'm tryin' boss.
Glinting in the lights are the brass fixtures of the near-perfectly
preserved fireplace. An albino Galathea crab crawls over it. Nearby are the
remains of a divan and a writing desk. The Dog crosses the ruins of the
once elegant room toward another DOOR. It squeezes through the doorframe,
scraping rust and wood chunks loose on both sides. It moves out of a cloud
of rust and keeps on going.
BODINE
I'm crossing the bedroom.
The remains of a pillared canopy bed. Broken chairs, a dresser. Through the
collapsed wall of the bathroom, the porcelain commode and bathtub took
almost new, gleaming in the dark.
LOVETT
Okay, I want to see what's under that wardrobe door.
SEVERAL ANGLES as the ROV deploys its MANIPULATOR ARMS and starts moving
debris aside. A lamp is lifted, its ceramic colors as bright as they were
in 1912.
LOVETT
Easy, Lewis. Take it slow.
Lewis grips a wardrobe door, lying at an angle in a corner, and pulls it
with Snoop's gripper. It moves reluctantly in a cloud of silt. Under it is
a dark object. The silt clears and Snoop's cameras show them what was under
the door...
BODINE
Ooohh daddy-oh, are you seein' what I'm seein'?
CLOSE ON LOVETT, watching his moniteors. By his expression it is like he is
seeing the Holy Grail.
LOVETT
Oh baby baby baby.
(grabs the mike)
It's payday, boys.
ON THE SCREEN, in the glare of the lights, is the object of their quest: a
small STEEL COMBINATION SAFE.
CUT TO:
Technicians are carefully removing some papers from the safe and placing
them in a tray of water to separate them safely. Nearby, other artifacts
from the stateroom are being washed and preserved.
Buell is on the satellite phone with the INVESTORS. Lovett is yelling at
the video crew.
LOVETT
You send out what I tell you when I tell you. I'm signing your paychecks,
not 60 minutes. Now get set up for the uplink.
Buell covers the phone and turns to Lovett.
BUELL
The partners want to know how it's going?
LOVETT
How it's going? It's going like a first date in prison, whattaya think?!
Lovett grabs the phone from Buell and goes instantly smooth.
LOVETT
Hi, Dave? Barry? Look, it wasn't in the safe... no, look, don't worry about
it, there're still plenty of places it could be... in the floor debris in
the suite, in the mother's room, in the purser's safe on C deck...
(seeing something)
Hang on a second.
A tech coaxes some letters in the water tray to one side with a tong...
revealing a pencil (conte crayon) drawing of a woman.
Brock looks closely at the drawing, which is in excellent shape, though its
edges have partially disintegrated. The woman is beautiful, and beautifully
rendered. In her late teens or early twenties, she is nude, though posed
with a kind of casual modesty. She is on an Empire divan, in a pool of
light that seems to radiate outward from her eyes. Scrawled in the lower
right corner is the date: April 14 1912. And the initials JD.
The girl is not entirely nude. At her throat is a diamond necklace with one
large stone hanging in the center.
Lovett grabs a reference photo from the clutter on the lab table. It is a
period black-and-white photo of a diamond necklace on a black velvet
jeller's display stand. He holds it next to the drawing. It is clearly the
same piece... a complex setting with a massive central stone which is
almost heart-shaped.
LOVETT
I'll be God damned.
CUT TO:
16 INSERT
A CNN NEWS STORY: a live satellite feed from the deck of the Keldysh,
intercut with the CNN studio.
ANNOUNCER
Treasure hunter Brock Lovett is best known for finding Spanish gold in
sunken galleons in the Caribbean. Now he is using deep submergence
technology to work two and a half miles down at another famous wreck... the
Titanic. He is with us live via satellite from a Russian research ship in
the middle of the Atlantic... hello Brock?
LOVETT
Yes, hi, Tracy. You know, Titanic is not just A shipwrick, Titanic is THE
shipwreck. It's the Mount Everest of shipwrecks.
CUT TO:
PULL BACK from the screen, showing the CNN report playing on a TV set in
the living room of a small rustic house. It is full of ceramics, figurines,
folk art, the walls crammed with drawings and paintings... things collected
over a lifetime.
PANNING to show a glassed-in studio attached to the house. Outside it is a
quiet morning in Ojai, California. In the studio, amid incredible clutter,
an ANCIENT WOMAN is throwing a pot on a potter's wheel. The liquid red clay
covers her hands... hands that are gnarled and age-spotted, but still
surprisingly strong and supple. A woman in her early forties assists her.
LOVETT (V.O.)
I've planned this expedition for three years, and we're out here recovering
some amazing things... things that will have enormous historical and
educational value.
CNN REPORTER (V.O.)
But it's no secret that education is not your main purpose. You're a
treasure hunter. So what is the treasure you're hunting?
LOVETT (V.O.)
I'd rather show you than tell you, and we think we're very close to doing
just that.
The old woman's name is ROSE CALVERT. Her face is a wrinkled mass, her body
shapeless and shrunken under a one-piece African-print dress.
But her eyes are just as bright and alive as those of a young girl.
Rose gets up and walks into the living room, wiping pottery clay from her
hands with a rag. A Pomeranian dog gets up and comes in with her.
The younger soman, LIZZY CALVERT, rushes to help her.
ROSE
Turn that up please, dear.
REPORTER (V.O.)
Your expedition is at the center of a storm of controversy over salvage
rights and even ethics. Many are calling you a grave robber.
TIGHT ON THE SCREEN.
LOVETT
Nobody called the recovery of the artifacts from King Tut's tomb grave
robbing. I have museum-trained experts here, making sure this stuff is
preserved and catalogued properly. Look at this drawing, which was found
today...
The video camera pans off Brock to the drawing, in a tray of water. The
image of the woman with the necklace FILLS FRAME.
LOVETT
...a piece of paper that's been underwater for 84 years... and my team are
able to preserve it intanct. Should this have remained unseen at the bottom
of the ocean for eternity, when we can see it and enjoy it now...?
ROSE is galvanized by this image. Her mouth hangs open in amazement.
ROSE
I'll be God damned.
CUT TO:
Beull hands Lovett the phone, pushing down the blinking line. The call is
from Rose and we see both ends of the conversation. She is in her kitchen
with a mystified Lizzy.
LOVETT
This is Brock Lovett. What can I do for you, Mrs... ?
BUELL
Rose Calvert.
LOVETT
... Mrs. Calvert?
ROSE
I was just wondering if you had found the "Heart of the Ocean" yet, Mr.
Lovett.
Brock almost drops the phone. Bobby sees his shocked expression...
BUELL
I told you you wanted to take this call.
LOVETT
(to Rose)
Alright. You have my attention, Rose. Can you tell me who the woman in the
picture is?
ROSE
Oh yes. The woman in the picture is me.
CUT TO:
Lizzy is unpacking Rose's things in the small utilitarian room. Rose is
placing a number of FRAMED PHOTOS on the bureau, arranging them carefully
next to the fishbowl. Brock and Bodine are in the doorway.
LOVETT
Is your stateroom alright?
ROSE
Yes. Very nice. Have you met my granddaughter, Lizzy? She takes care of me.
LIZZY
Yes. We met just a few minutes ago, grandma. Remember, up on deck?
ROSE
Oh, yes.
Brock glances at Bodine... oh oh. Bodine rolls his eyes. Rose finishes
arranging her photographs. We get a general glimpse of them: the usual
snapshots... children and grandchildren, her late husband.
ROSE
There, that's nice. I have to have my pictures when I travel. And Freddy of
course.
(to the Pomeranian)
Isn't that right, sweetie.
LOVETT
Would you like anything?
ROSE
I should like to see my drawing.
CUT TO:
Rose looks at the drawing in its tray of water, confronting herself across
a span of 84 years. Until they can figure out the best way to preserve it,
they have to keep it immersed. It sways and ripples, almost as if alive.
TIGHT ON Rose's ancient eyes, gazing at the drawing.
25 FLASHCUT of a man's hand, holding a conte crayon deftly creating a
shoulder and the shape of her hair with two efficient lines.
26 THE WOMAN'S FACE IN THE DRAWING, dancing under the water.
27 A FLASHCUT of a man's eyes, just visible over the top of a sketching
pad. They look up suddenly right into the LENS. Soft eyes, but fearlessly
direct.
28 Rose smiles, remembering. Brock has the reference photo of the necklace
in his hand.
LOVETT
Louis the Sixteenth wore a fabulous stone, called the Blue Diamond of the
Crown, which disappeared in 1792, about the time Louis lost everything from
the neck up. The theory goes that the crown diamond was chopped too...
recut into a heart-like shape... and it became Le Coeur de la Mer. The
Heart of the Ocean. Today it would be worth more than the Hope Diamond.
ROSE
It was a dreadful, heavy thing.
(she points at the drawing)
I only wore it this once.
LIZZY
You actually believe this is you, grandma?
ROSE
It is me, dear. Wasn't I a hot number?
LOVETT
I tracked it down through insurance records... and old claim that was
settled under terms of absolute secrecy. Do you know who the claiment was,
Rost?
ROSE
Someone named Hockley, I should imagine.
LOVETT
Nathan Hockley, right. Pittsburgh steel tycoon. For a diamond necklace his
son Caledon Hockley bought in France for his fiancee... you... a week
before he sailed on Titanic. And the claim was filed right after the
sinking. So the diamond had to've gone down with the ship.
(to Lizzy)
See the date?
LIZZY
April 14, 1912.
LOVETT
If your grandma is who she says she is, she was wearing the diamond the day
Titanic sank.
(MORE)
LOVETT (CONT'D)
(to Rose)
And that makes you my new best friend. I will happily compensate you for
anything you can tell us that will lead to its recovery.
ROSE
I don't want your money, Mr. Lovett. I know how hard it is for people who
care greatly for money to give some away.
BODINE
(skeptical)
You don't want anything?
ROSE
(indicating the drawing)
You may give me this, if anything I tell you is of value.
LOVETT
Deal.
(crossing the room)
Over here are a few things we've recovered from your staterooms.
Laid out on a worktable are fifty or so objects, from mundane to valuable.
Rose, shrunken in her chair, can barely see over the table top. With a
trembling hand she lifts a tortoise shell hand mirror, inlaid with mother
of pearl. She caresses it wonderingly.
ROSE
This was mine. How extraordinary! It looks the same as the last time I saw
it.
She turns the mirror over and looks at her ancient face in the cracked
glass.
ROSE
The reflection has changed a bit.
She spies something else, a silver and moonstone art-nouveau brooch.
ROSE
My mother's brooch. She wanted to go back for it. Caused quite a fuss.
Rose picks up an ornate art-nouveau HAIR COMB. A jade butterfly takes
flight on the ebony handle of the comb. She turns it slowly, remembering.
We can see that Rose is experiencing a rush of images and emotions that
have lain dormant for eight decades as she handles the butterfly comb.
LOVETT
Are you ready to go back to Titanic?
CUT TO:
It is a darkened room lined with TV monitors. IMAGES OF THE WRECK fill the
screens, fed from Mir One and Two, and the two ROVs, Snoop Dog and DUNCAN.
BODINE
Live from 12,000 feet.
ROSE stares raptly at the screens. She is enthraled by one in particular,
an image of the bow railing. It obviously means something to her. Brock is
studying her reactions carefully.
BODINE
The bow's struck in the bottom like an axe, from the impact. Here... I can
run a simulation we worked up on this monitor over here.
Lizzy turns the chair so Rose can see the screen of Bodine's computer. As
he is calling up the file, he keeps talking.
BODINE
We've put together the world's largest database on the Titanic. Okay,
here...
LOVETT
Rose might not want to see this, Lewis.
ROSE
No, no. It's fine. I'm curious.
Bodine starts a COMPUTER ANIMATED GRAPHIC on the screen, which parallels
his rapid-fire narration.
BODINE
She hits the berg on the starboard side and it sort of bumps along...
punching holes like a morse code... dit dit dit, down the side. Now she's
flooding in the
BODINE (cont'd)
forward compartments... and the water spills over the tops of the
bulkheads, going aft. As her bow is going down, her stern is coming up...
slow at first... and then faster and faster until it's lifting all that
weight, maybe 20 or 30 thousand tons... out of the water and the hull can't
deal... so SKRTTT!!
(making a sound in time with the animation)
... it splits! Right down to the keel, which acts like a big hinge. Now the
bow swings down and the stern falls back level... but the weight of the bow
pulls the stern up vertical, and then the bow section detaches, heading for
the bottom. The stern bobs like a cork, floods and goes under about 2:20
a.m. Two hours and forty minutes after the collision.
The animation then follows the bow section as it sinks. Rose watches this
clinical dissection of the disaster without emotion.
BODINE
The bow pulls out of its dive and planes away, almost a half a mile, before
it hits the bottom going maybe 12 miles an hour. KABOOM!
The bow impacts, digging deeply into the bottom, the animation now follows
the stern.
BODINE
The stern implodes as it sinks, from the pressure, and rips apart from the
force of the current as it falls, landing like a big pile of junk.
(indicating the simulation)
Cool huh?
ROSE
Thank you for that fine forensic analysis, Mr. Bodine. Of course the
experience of it was somewhat less clinical.
LOVETT
Will you share it with us?
Her eyes go back to the screens, showing the sad ruins far below them.
A VIEW from one of the subs TRACKING SLOWLY over the boat deck. Rose
recognizes one of the Wellin davits, still in place. She hears ghostly
waltz music. The faint and echoing sound of an officer's voice, English
accented, calling "Women and children only".
30 FLASH CUTS of screaming faces in a running crowd. Pandemonium and
terror. People crying, praying, kneeling on the deck. Just impressions...
flashes in the dark.
31 Rose Looks at another monitor. SNOOP DOG moving down a rusted,
debris-filled corridor. Rose watches the endless row of doorways sliding
past, like dark mouths.
32 IMAGE OF A CHILD, three years old, standing ankle deep in water in the
middle of an endless corridor. The child is lost alone, crying.
33 Rose is shaken by the flood of memories and emotions. Her eyes well up
and she puts her head down, sobbing quietly.
LIZZY
(taking the wheelchair)
I'm taking her to rest.
ROSE
No!
Her voice is surprisingly strong. The sweet little old lady is gone,
replaced by a woman with eyes of steel. Lovett signals everyone to stay
quiet.
LOVETT
Tell us, Rose.
She looks from screen to screen, the images of the ruined ship.
ROSE
It's been 84 years...
LOVETT
Just tell us what you can--
ROSE
(holds up her hand for silence)
It's been 84 years... and I can still smell the fresh paint. The china had
never been used. The sheets had never been slept in.
He switches on the minirecorder and sets it near her.
ROSE
Titanic was called the Ship of Dreams. And it was. It really was...
As the underwater camera rises past the rusted bow rail, WE DISSOLVE /
MATCH MOVE to that same railing in 1912...
MATCH DISSOLVE:
Jack and Fabrizio walk down a narrow corridor with doors lining both sides
like a college dorm. Total confusion as people argue over luggage in
several languages, or wander in confusion in the labyrinth. They pass
emigrants studying the signs over the doors, and looking up the words in
phrase books.
They find their berth. It is a modest cubicle, painted enamel white, with
four bunks. Exposed pipes overhead. The other two guys are already there.
OLAUS and BJORN GUNDERSEN.
Jack throws his kit on one open bunk, while Fabrizio takes the other.
BJORN
(in Swedish/ subtitled)
Where is Sven?
CUT TO:
By contrast, the so-called "Millionaire Suite" is in the Empire style, and
comprises two bedrooms, a bath, WC, wardrobe room, and a large sitting
room. In addition there is a private 50 foot promenade deck outside.
A room service waiter pours champagne into a tulip glass of orange juice
and hands the Bucks Fizz to Rose. She is looking through her new paintings.
There is a Monet of water lilies, a Degas of dancers, and a few abstract
works. They are all unknown paintings... lost works.
Cal is out on the covered deck, which has potted trees and vines on
trellises, talking through the doorway to Rose in the sitting room.
CAL
Those mud puddles were certainly a waste of money.
ROSE
(looking at a cubist portrait)
You're wrong. They're fascinating. Like in a dream... there's truth without
logic. What's his name again... ?
(reading off the canvas)
Picasso.
CAL
(coming into the sitting room)
He'll never amount to a thing, trust me. At least they were cheap.
A porter wheels Cal's private safe (which we recognize) into the room on a
handtruck.
CAL
Put that in the wardrobe.
47 IN THE BEDROOM Rose enters with the large Degas of the dancers. She sets
it on the dresser, near the canopy bed. Trudy is already in there, hanging
up some of Rose's clothes.
TRUDY
It smells so brand new. Like they built it all just for us. I mean... just
to think that tonight, when I crawl between the sheets, Iill be the first--
Cal appears in the doorway of the bedroom.
CAL
(looking at Rose)
And when I crawl between the sheets tonight, I'll still be the first.
TRUDY
(blushing at the innuendo)
S'cuse me, Miss.
She edges around Cal and makes a quick exit. Cal comes up behind Rose and
puts his hands on her shoulders. An act of possession, not intimacy.
CAL
The first and only. Forever.
Rose's expression shows how bleak a prospect this is for her, now.
CUT TO:
Entering the first class reception room from the tender are a number of
prominent passengers. A BROAD-SHOULDERED WOMAN in an enormous feathered hat
comes up the gangway, carrying a suitcase in each hand, a spindly porter
running to catch up with her to take the bags.
WOMAN
Well, I wasn't about to wait all day for you, sonny. Take 'em the rest of
the way if you think you can manage.
OLD ROSE (V.O.)
At Cherbourg a woman came aboard named Margaret Brown, but we all called
her Molly. History would call her the Unsinkable Molly Brown. Her husband
had struck gold someplace out west, and she was what mother called "new
money".
At 45, MOLLY BROWN is a tough talking straightshooter who dresses in the
finery of her genteel peers but will never be one of them.
OLD ROSE (V.O.)
By the next afternoon we had made our final stop and we were steaming west
from the coast of Ireland, with nothing out ahead of us but ocean...
CUT TO:
50 OMITTED
ON THE BRIDGE, CAPTAIN SMITH turns from the binnacle to FIRST OFFICER
WILLIAM MURDOCH.
CAPTAIN SMITH
Take her to sea Mister Murdoch. Let's stretch her legs.
Murdoch moves the engine telegraph lever to ALL AHEAD FULL.
53 NOW BEGINS a kind of musical/visual setpiece... an ode to the great
ship. The music is rhythmic, surging forward, with a soaring melody that
addresses the majesty and optimism of the ship of dreams.
IN THE ENGINE ROOM the telegraph clangs and moves to "All Ahead Full".
CHIEF ENGINEER BELL
All ahead full!
On the catwalk THOMAS ANDREWS, the shipbuilder, watches carefully as the
engineers and greasers scramble to adjust valves. Towering above them are
the twin RECIPROCATING engines, four stories tall, their ten-foot-long
connecting rods surging up and down with the turning of the massive
crankshafts. The engines thunder like the footfalls of marching giants.
54 IN THE BOILER ROOMS the STOKERS chant a song as they hurl coal into the
roaring furnaces. The "black gang" are covered with sweat and coal dust,
their muscles working like part of the machinery as they toil in the
hellish glow.
55 UNDERWATER the enormous bronze screws chop through the water, hurling
the steamer forward and churning up a vortex of foam that lingers for miles
behind the juggernaut ship. Smoke pours from the funnels as--
56 The riven water flares higher at the bow as the ship's speeds builds.
THE CAMERA SWEEPS UP the prow to find Jack, the wind streaming through his
hair and--
57 Captain Smith steps out of the enclosed bridge onto the wing. He stands
with his hands on the rail, looking every bit the storybook picture of a
Captain... a great patriarch of the sea.
FIRST OFFICER MURDOCH
Twenty one knots, sir!
SMITH
She's got a bone in her teeth now, eh, Mr. Murdoch.
Smith accepts a cup of tea from FIFTH OFFICER LOWE. He contentedly watches
the white V of water hurled outward from the bows like an expression of his
own personal power. They are invulnerable, towering over the sea.
58 AT THE BOW Jack and Fabrizio lean far over, looking down.
In the glassy bow-wave two dolphins appear, under the water, running fast
just in front of the steel blade of the prow. They do it for the sheer joy
and exultation of motion. Jack watches the dolphins and grins. They breach,
jumping clear of the water and then dive back, crisscrossing in front of
the bow, dancing ahead of the juggernaut.
FABRIZIO looks forward across the Atlantic, staring into the sunsparkles.
FABRIZIO
I can see the Statue of Liberty already.
(grinning at Jack)
Very small... of course.
THE CAMERA ARCS around them, until they are framed against the sea.
NOW WE PULL BACK, across the forecastle deck. Rising, as we continue back,
and the ships rolls endlessly forward underneath. Over the bridge wing,
along the boat deck until her funnels come INTO FRAME besides us and march
past like the pillars of heaven, one by one. We pull back and up, until we
are looking down the funnels, and the people strolling on the decks and
standing at the rail become antlike.
And still we pull back until the great lady is seen whole in a gorgeous
aerial portrait, black and severe in her majesty.
ISMAY (V.O.)
She is the largest moving object ever made by the hand of man in all
history...
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON J. BRUCE ISMAY, Managing Director of White Star Line.
ISMAY
...and our master shipbuilder, Mr. Andrews here, designed her from the keel
plates up.
He indicates a handsome 39 year old Irish gentlemen to his right, THOMAS
ANDREWS, of Harland and Wolf Shipbuilders.
WIDER, showing the group assembled for lunch the next day. Ismay seated
with Cal, Rose, Ruth, Molly Brown and Thomas Andrews in the Palm Court, a
beautiful sunny spot enclosed by high arched windows.
ANDREWS
(disliking the attention)
Well, I may have knocked her together, but the idea was Mr. Ismay's. He
envisioned a steamer so grand in scale, and so luxurious in its
appointments, that its supremacy would never be challenged. And here she
is...
(he slaps the table)
...willed into solid reality.
MOLLY
Why're ships always bein' called "she"? Is it because men think half the
women around have big sterns and should be weighed in tonnage?
(they all laugh)
Just another example of the men settin' the rules their way.
The waiter arrives to take orders. Rose lights a cigarette.
RUTH
You know I don't like that, Rose.
CAL
She knows.
Cal takes the cigarette from her and stubs it out.
CAL
(to the waiter)
We'll both have the lamb. Rare, with a little mint sauce.
(to Rose, after the waiter moves away)
You like lamb, don't you sweetpea?
Molly is watching the dynamic between Rose, Cal and Ruth.
MOLLY
So, you gonna cut her meat for her too there, Cal?
(turning to Ismay)
Hey, who came up with the name Titanic? You, Bruce?
ISMAY
Yes, actually. I wanted to convey sheer size. And size means stability,
luxury... and safety--
ROSE
Do you know of Dr. Freud? His ideas about the male preoccupation with size
might be of particular interest to you, Mr. Ismay.
Andrews chockes on his breadstick, suppressing laughter.
RUTH
My God, Rose, what's gotten into--
ROSE
Excuse me.
She stalks away.
RUTH
(mortified)
I do apologize.
MOLLY
She's a pistol, Cal. You sure you can handle her?
CAL
(tense but feigning unconcern)
Well, I may have to start minding what she reads from now on.
CUT TO:
SLOWLY PUSHING IN ON ROSE as she sits, flanked by people in heated
conversation. Cal and Ruth are laughing together, while on the other side
LADY DUFF-GORDON is holding forth animatedly. We don't hear what they are
saying. Rose is staring at her plate, barely listening to the
inconsequential babble around her.
OLD ROSE (V.O.)
I saw my whole life as if I'd already lived it... an endless parade of
parties and cotillions, yachts and polo matches... always the same narrow
people, the same mindless chatter. I felt like I was standing at a great
precipice, with no one to pull me back, no one who cared... or even
noticed.
ANGLE BENEATH TABLE showing Rose's hand, holding a tiny fork from her crab
salad. She pokes the crab-fork into the skin of her arm, harder and harder
until it draws blood.
CUT TO:
Rose walks along the corridor. A steward coming the other way greets her,
and she nods with a slight smile. She is perfectly composed.
CUT TO:
She enters the room. Stands in the middle, staring at her reflection in the
large vanity mirror. Just stands there, then--
With a primal, anguished cry she claws at her throat, ripping off her pearl
necklace, which explodes across the room. In a frenzy she tears at herself,
her clothes, her hair... then attacks the room. She flings everything off
the dresser and it flies clattering against the wall. She hurls a
handmirror against the vanity, cracking it.
CUT TO:
As she undresses for bed Rose sees Cal standing in her doorway, reflected
in the cracked mirror of her vanity. He comes toward her.
CAL
(unexpectedly tender)
I know you've een melancholy, and I don't pretent to know why.
From behind his back he hands her a large black velvet jewel case. She
takes it, numbly.
CAL
I intended to save this till the engagement gals next week. But I thought
tonight, perhaps a reminder of my feeling for you...
Rose slowly opens the box. Inside is the necklace... "HEART OF THE OCEAN"
in all its glory. It is huge... a malevolent blue stone glittering with an
infinity of scalpel-like inner reflections.
ROSE
My God... Cal. Is it a--
CAL
Daimond. Yes it is. 56 carats.
He takes the necklace and during the following places it around her throat.
He turns her to the mirror, staring behind her.
CAL
It was once worn by Louis the Sixteenth. They call it Le Coeur de la Mer,
the--
ROSE
The Heart of the Ocean. Cal, it's... it's overwhelming.
He gazes at the image of the two of them in the mirror.
CAL
It's for royalty. And we are royalty.
His fingers caress her neck and throat. He seems himself to be disarmed by
Rose's elegance and beauty. His emotion is, for the first time, unguarded.
CAL
There's nothing I couldn't give you. There's nothing I'd deny you if you
would deny me. Open your heart to me, Rose.
CAMERA begins to TRACK IN ON ROSE. Closer and closer, during the following:
OLD ROSE (V.O.)
Of course his gift was only to reflect light back onto himself, to
illuminate the greatness that was Caledon Hockley. It was a cold stone... a
heart of ice.
Finally, when Rose's eyes FILL FRAM, we MORPH SLOWLY to her eyes as the are
now... transforming through 84 years of life...
TRANSITION
Without a cut the wrinkled, weathered landscape of age has appeared around
her eyes. But the eyes themselves are the same.
OLD ROSE
After all these years, feel it closing around my throat like a dog collar.
THE CAMERA PUllS BACK to show her whole face.
ROSE
I can still feel its weight. If you could have felt it, not just seen it...
LOVETT
Well, that's the general idea, my dear.
BODINE
So let me get this right. You were gonna kill yourself by jumping off the
Titanic?
(he guffaws)
That's great!
LOVETT
(warningly)
Lewis...
But Rose laughs with Bodine.
BODINE
(still laughing)
All you had to do was wait two days!
Lovett, standing out of Rose's sightline, checks his watch. Hours have
passed. This process is taking too long.
LOVETT
Rose, tell us more about the diamond. What did Hockley do with it after
that?
ROSE
Im afraid I'm feeling a little tired, Mr. Lovett.
Lizzy picks up the cue and starts to wheel her out.
LOVETT
Wait! Can you give us something go on, here. Like who had access to the
safe. What about this Lovejoy guy? The valet. Did he have the combination?
LIZZY
That's enough.
Lizzy takes her out. Rose's old hand reapears at the doorway in a frail
wave goodbye.
CUT TO:
Bodine starts the tape recorder. Rose is gazing at the screen seeing THE
LIVE FEED FROM THE WRECK--SNOOP DOG is moving along the starboard side of
the hull, heading aft. The rectangular windows of A deck (forward) march
past on the right.
ROSE
The next day, Saturday, I remember thinking how the sunlight felt.
DISSOLVE TO:
The social center of steerage life. It is stark by comparison to the
opulence of first class, but is a loud, boisterous place. There are mothers
with babies, kids running between the benches yelling in several languages
and being scolded in several more. There are old women yelling, men playing
chess, girls doing needlepoint and reading dime novels. There is even an
upright piano and Tommy Ryan is noodling around it.
Three boys, shrieking and shouting, are scrambling around chasing a rat
under the benches, trying to whomp it with a shoe and causing general
havoc. Jack is playing with 5 year old CORA CARTMeLL, drawing funny faces
together in his sketchbook.
Fabrizio is struggling to get a conversation going with an attractive
Norwegian girl, HELGA DAHL, sitting with her family at a table across the
room.
FABRIZIO
No Italian? Some little English?
HELGA
No, no. Norwegian. Only.
Helga's eye is caught by something. Fabrizio looks, does a take... and
Jack, curious, follows their gaze to see...
Rose, coming toward them. The activity in the room stops... a hush falls.
Rose feels suddenly self-conscious as the steerage passengers stare openly
at this princess, some with resentment, others with awe. She spots Jack and
gives a little smile, walking straight to him. He rises to meet her,
smiling.
ROSE
Hello Jack.
Fabrizio and Tommy are floored. Its like the slipper fitting Cinderella.
JACK
Hello again.
ROSE
Could I speak to you in private?
JACK
Uh, yes. Of course. After you.
He motions her ahead and follows. Jack glances over his shoulder, one
eyebrow raised, as he walks out with her leaving a stunned silence.
CUT TO:
Ruth is having tea with NOEL LUCY MARTHA DYER-EDWARDES, the COUNTESS OF
ROTHES, a 35ish English blue-blood with patirician features. Ruth sees
someone coming across the room and lowers her voice.
RUTH
Oh no, that vulgar Brown woman is coming this way. Get up, quickly before
she sits with us.
Molly Brown walks up, greeting them cheerfully as they are rising.
MOLLY
Hello girls, I was hoping I'd catch you at tea.
RUTH
We're awfully sorry you missed it. The Countess and I are just off to take
the air on the boat deck.
MOLLY
That sounds great. Let's go. I need to catch up on the gossip.
Ruth grits her teeth as the three of them head for the Grand Staircase to
go up. TRACKING WITH THEM, as they cross the room, the SHOT HANDS OFF to
Bruce Ismay and Captain Smith at another table.
ISMAY
So you've not lit the last four boilers then?
SMITH
No, but we're making excellent time.
ISMAY
(impatiently)
Captain, the press knows the size of Titanic, let them marvel at her speed
too. We must give them something new to print. And the maiden voyage of
Titnaic must make headlines!
SMITH
I prefer not to push the engines until they've been properly run in.
ISMAY
Of course I leave it to your good offices to decide what's best, but what a
glorious end to your last crossing if we get into New York Tuesday night
and surprise them all.
(Ismay slaps his hand on the table)
Retire with a bang, eh, E.J?
A beat. Then Smith nods, stiffy.
CUT TO:
Men's suits and jackets and formal wear are strewn all over the place.
Molly is having a fine time. Jack is dressed, except for his jacket, and
Molly is tying his bow tie.
MOLLY
Don't feel bad about it. My husband still can't tie one of these damn
things after 20 years. There you go.
She picks up a jacket off the bed and hands it to him. Jack goes into the
bathroom to put it on. Molly starts picking up the stuff off the bed.
MOLLY
I gotta buy everything in three sizes 'cause I never know how much he's
been eating while I'm away.
She turns and sees him, though we don't.
MOLLY
My, my, my... you shine up like a new penny.
CUT TO:
Jack steps in and his breath is taken away by the splendor spread out
before him. Overhead is the enormous glass dome, with a crystal chandelier
at its center. Sweeping down six stories is the First Class Grand
Staircase, the epitome of the opulent naval architecture of the time.
And the people: the women in their floor length dresses, elaborate
hairstyles and abundant jewelry... the gentlemen in evening dress, standing
with one hand at the small of the back, talking quietly.
Jack descends to A deck. Several men nod a perfunctory greeting. He nods
back, keeping it simple. He feels like a spy.
Cal comes down the stairs, with Ruth on his arm, covered in jewelry. They
both walk right past Jack, neither one gecognizeing him. Cal nods at him,
one gent to another. But Jack barely has time to be amused. Because just
behind Cal and Ruth on the stairs is Rose, a vision in red and black, her
low-cut dress showing off her neck and shoulders, her arms seathed in white
gloves that come well above above the elbow. Jack is hypnotized by her
beauty.
CLOSE ON ROSE as she approaches Jack. He imitates the gentlemen's stance,
hand behind his back. She extends her gloved hand and he takes it, kissing
the back of her fingers. Rose flushes, beaming noticeably. She can't take
her eyes off him.
JACK
I saw that in a nickelodean once, and I always wanted to do it.
ROSE
Cal, surely you remember Mr. Dawson.
CAL
(caught off guard)
Dawson! I didn't recognize you.
(studies him)
Amazing! You could almost pass for a gentlemen.
CUT TO:
CUT TO THE RECEPTION ROOM ON D DECK, as the party descends to dinner. They
encounter Molly Brown, looking good in a beaded dress, in her own busty
broad-shouldered way. Molly grins when she sees Jack. As they are going
into the dining saloon she walks next to him, speaking low:
MOLLY
Ain't nothin' to it, is there, Jack?
JACK
Yeah, you just dress like a pallbearer and keep your nose up.
MOLLY
Remember, the only thing they respect is money, so just act like you've got
a lot of it and you're in the club.
As they enter the swirling throng, Rose leans close to him, pointing out
several notables.
ROSE
There's the Countess Rothes. And that's John Jacob Astor... the richest man
on the ship. His little wifey there, Madeleine, is my age and in a delicate
condition. See how she's trying to hide it. Quite the scandal.
(nodding toward a couple)
And over there, that's Sir Cosmo and Lucile, Lady Duff-Gordon. She designs
naughty lingerie, among her many talents. Very popular with the royals.
Cal becomes engrossed in a conversations with Cosmo Duff-Gordon and Colonel
Gracie, while Ruth, the Countess and Lucille discuss fashion. Rose picots
Jack smoothly, to show him another couple, dressed impeccably.
ROSE
And that's Benjamin Guggenheim and his mistress, Madame Aubert. Mrs.
Guggenheim is at home with the children, of course.
Cal, meanwhile, is accepting the praise of his male counterparts, who are
looking at Rose like a prize show horse.
SIR COSMO
Hockley, she is splendid.
CAL
Thank you.
GRACIE
Cal's a lucky man. I know him well, and it can only be luck.
Ruth steps over, hearing the last. She takes Cal's arm, somewhat
coquettishly.
RUTH
How can you say that Colonel? Caledon Hockley is a great catch.
The entourage strolls toward the dining saloon, where they run into the
Astor's going through the ornate double doors.
ROSE
J.J., Madeleine, I'd like you to meet Jack Dawson.
ASTOR
(shaking his hand)
Good to meet you Jack. Are you of the Boston Dawsons?
JACK
No, the Chippewa Falls Dawsons, actually.
J.J. nods as if he's heard of them, then looks puzzled. Madeleine Astor
appraises Jack and whispers girlishly to Rose:
MADELEINE
It's a pity we're both spoken for, isn't it?
CUT TO:
Like a ballroom at the palace, alive and lit by a constellation of
chandeliers, full of elegantly dressed people and beautiful music from
BANDLEADER WALLACE HARTLEY'S small orchestra. As Rose and Jack enter and
move across the room to their table, Cal and Ruth beside them, we hear...
OLD ROSE (V.O.)
He must have been nervous but he never faltered. They assumed he was one of
them... a young captain of industry perhaps... new money, obviously, but
still a memeber of the club. Mother of course, could always be counted
upon...
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON RUTH.
RUTH
Tell us of the accommodations in steerage, Mr. Dawson. I hear they're quite
good on this ship.
WIDER: THE TABLE. Jack is seated opposite Rose, who is flanked by Cal and
Thomas Andrews. Also at the table are Molly Brown, Ismay, Colonel Gracie,
the Countess, Guggenheim, Madame Aubert, and the Astors.
JACK
The best I've seen, m'am. Hardly any rats.
Rose motions surreptitiously for Jack to take his napkin off his plate.
CAL
Mr. Dawson is joining us from third class. He was of some assistance to my
fiancee last night.
(to Jack, as if to a child)
This is foie gras. It's goose liver.
We see whispers exchanged. Jack becomesthe subject of furtive glances. Now
they're all feeling terribly liberal and dangerous.
GUGGENHEIM
(low to Madame Aubert)
What is Hockly hoping to prove, bringing this... bohemian... up here?
WAITER
(to Jack)
How do you take your caviar, sir?
CAL
(answering for him)
Just a soupcon of lemon...
(to Jack, smiling)
...it improves the flavor with champagne.
JACK
(to the waiter)
No caviar for me, thanks.
(to Cal)
Never did like it much.
He looks at Rose, pokerfaced, and she smiles.
RUTH
And where exactly do you live, Mr. Dawson?
JACK
Well, right now my address is the RMS Titanic. After that, I'm on God's
good humor.
Salad is served. Jack reaches for the fish fork. Rose gives him a look and
picks up the salad fork, prompting him with her eyes. He changes forks.
RUTH
You find that sort of rootless existence appealing, do you?
JACK
Well... it's a big world, and I want to see it all before I go. My father
was always talkin' about goin' to see the ocean. He died in the town he was
born in, and never did see it. You can't wait around, because you never
know what hand you're going to get dealt next. See, my folks died in a fire
when I was fifteen, and I've been on the road since. Somethin' like that
teaches you to take life as it comes at you. To make each day count.
Molly Brown raises her glass in a salute.
MOLLY
Well said, Jack.
COLONEL GRACIE
(raising his glass)
Here, here.
Rose raises her glass, looking at Jack.
ROSE
To making it count.
Ruth, annoyed that Jack has scored a point, presses him further.
RUTH
How is it you have the means to travel, Mr. Dawson?
JACK
I work my way from place to place. Tramp steamers and such. I won my ticket
on Titanic here in a lucky hand at poker.
(he glances at Rose)
A very lucky hand.
GRACIE
All life is a game of luck.
CAL
A real man makes his own luck, Archie.
Rose notices that Thomas Andrews, sitting next to her, is writing in his
notebook, completely ignoring the conversation.
ROSE
Mr. Andrews, what are you doing? I see you everywhere writing in this
little book.
(grabs it and reads)
Increase number of screws in hat hooks from 2 to 3. You build the biggest
ship in the world and this preoccupies you?!
Andrews smiles sheepishly.
ISMAY
He knows every rivet in her, don't you Thomas?
ANDREWS
All three million of them.
ISMAY
His blood and soul are in the ship. She may be mine on paper, but in the
eyes of God she belongs to Thomas Andrews.
ROSE
Your ship is a wonder, Mr. Andrews. Truly.
ANDREWS
Thankyou, Rose.
We see that Andrews has come under Rose's spell.
83 TIME TRANSITION: Dessert has been served and a waiter arrives with
cigars in a humidor on a wheeled cart. The men start clipping ends and
lighting.
ROSE
(low, to Jack)
Nest it'll be brandies in the Smoking Room.
GRACIE
(rising)
Well, join me for a brandy, gentlemen?
ROSE
(low)
Now they retreat into a cloud of smoke and congratulate each other on being
masters of the universe.
GRACIE
Joining us, Dawson? You don't want to stay out here with the women, do you?
Actually he does, but...
JACK
No thanks. I'm heading back.
CAL
Probably best. It'll be all business and politics, that sort of thing.
Wouldn't interest you. Good of you to come.
Cal and te other gentlemen exit.
ROSE
Jack, must you go?
JACK
Time for my coach to turn back into a pumpkin.
He leans over to take her hand.
INSERT: We see him slip a tiny folded not into her palm.
Ruth, scowling, watches him walk away across the enormous room. Rose
surreptitiously opens the note below table level. It reads: "Make it count.
Meet me at the clock".
CUT TO:
Rose crosses the A-Deck foyer, sighting Jack at the landing above. Overhead
is the crystal dome. Jack has his back to her, studying the ornate clock
with its carved figures of Honor and Glory. It softly strikes the hour.
MOVING WITH ROSE as she goes up the sweeping staircase toward him. He
turns, sees her... smiles.
JACK
Want to go to a real party?
CUT TO:
Crow led and alive with music, laughter and raucous carrying on. An ad hoc
band is gathered near the upright piano, honking out lively stomping music
on fiddle, accoridon and tambourine. People of all ages are dancing,
drinking beer and wine, smoking, laughing, even brawling.
Tommy hands Rose a pint of stout and she hoists it. Jack meanwhile dances
with 5 year old Cora Cartmell, or tries to, with her standing on his feet.
As the tune ends, Rose leans down to the little girl.
ROSE
May I cut in, miss?
JACK
You're still my best girl, Cora.
Cora scampers off. Rose and Jack face each other. She is trembling as he
takes her right hand in his left. His other hand slides to the small of her
back. It is an electrifying moment.
ROSE
I don't know the steps.
JACK
Just move with me. Don't think.
The music starts and they are off. A little awkward at first, she starts to
get into it. She grins at Jack as she starts to get the rhythm of the
steops.
ROSE
Wait... stop!
She bends down, pulling off her high heeled shoes, and flings them to
Tommy. Then she grabs Jack and they plunge back into the fray, dancing
faster as the music speeds up.
CUT TO:
86 OMITTED
The scene is rowdy and rollicking. A table gets knocked over as a drunk
crashes into it. And in the middle of it... Rose dancing with Jack in her
stocking feet. The steps are fast and she shines with sweat. A space opens
around them, and people watch them, clapping as the band plays faster and
faster.
FABRIZIO AND HELGA. Dancing has obviated the need for a common language. He
whirls her, then she responds by whirling him... Fabrizio's eyes go wide
when he realizes she's stronger than he is.
The tune ends in a mad rush. Jack steps away from Rose with a flourish,
allowing her to take a bow. Exhilarated and slightly tipsy, she does a
graceful ballet ployer, feet turned out perfectly. Everyone laughs and
applauds. Rose is a hit with the steerage folks, who've never had a lady
party with them.
They move to a table, flushed and sweaty. Rose grabs Fabrizio's cigarette
and takes a big drag. She's feeling cocky. Fabrizio is grinning, holding
hands with Helga.
JACK
How you two doin'?
FABRIZIO
I don't know hwat she's say, she don't know what I say, so we get along
fine.
Tommy walks up with a pint for each of them. Rose chugs hers, showing off.
ROSE
You think a first class girl can't drink?
Everybody else is dancing again, and Bjorn Gundersen crashes into Tommy,
who sloshes his beer over Rose's dress. She laughs, not caring. But Tommy
lunges, grabbing Bjorn and wheeling him around.
TOMMY
You stupid bastard!!
Bjorn comes around, his fists coming up... and Jack leaps into the middle
of it, pushing them apart.
JACK
Boys, boys! Did I ever tell you the one about the Swede and the Irishman
goin' to the whorehouse?
Tommy stands there, all piss and vinegar, chest puffed up. Then he grins
and claps Bjorn on the shoulder.
ROSE
So, you think you're big tough men? Let's see you do this.
In her stocking feet she assumes a ballet stance, arms raised, and goes up
on point, taking her entire weight on the tips of her toes. The guys gape
at her incredible muscle control. She comes back down, then her face screws
up in pain. She grabs one foot, hopping around.
ROSE
Oooowww! I haven't done that in years.
Jack catches her as she loses her balance, and everyone cracks up.
THE DOOR to the well deck is open a few inches as Lovejoy watches through
the gap. He sees Jack holding Rose, both of them laughing.
LOVEJOY closes the door.
CUT TO:
SUNDAY APRIL 14, 1912. A bright clear day. Sunlight splashing across the
promenade. Rose and Cal are having breakfast in silence. The tension is
palpable. Trudy Bolt, in her maid's uniform, pours the coffee and goes
inside.
CAL
I had hoped you would come to me last night.
ROSE
I was tired.
CAL
Yes. Your exertions below decks were no doubt exausting.
ROSE
(stiffening)
I see you had that undertaker of a manservant follow me.
CAL
You will never behave like that again! Do you understand?
ROSE
I'm not some foreman in your mills than you can command! I am your
fiancee--
Cal explodes, sweeping the breakfast china off the table with a crash. He
moves to her in one shocking moment, glowering over her and gripping the
sides of her chair, so she is trapped between his arms.
CAL
Yes! You are! And my wife... in practice, if not yet by law. So you will
honor me, as a wife is required to honor her husband! I will not be made
out a fool! Is this in any way unclear?
Rose shrinks into the chair. She sees Trudy, frozen, partway through the
door bringing the orange juice. Cal follows Rose's glance and straightens
up. He stalks past the maid, entering the stateroom.
ROSE
We... had a little accident. I'm sorry, Trudy.
CUT TO:
Rose is dressed for the day, and is in the middle of helping Ruth with her
corset. The tight bindings do not inhibit Ruth's fury at all.
RUTH
You are not to see that boy again, do you understand me Rose? I forbid it!
Rose has her knee at the base of her mother's back and is pulling the
corset strings with both hands.
ROSE
Oh, stop it, Mother. You'll give yourself a nosebleed.
Ruth pulls away from her, and crosses to the door, locking it. CLACK!
RUTH
(wheeling on her)
Rose, this is not a game! Our situation is precarious. You know the money's
gone!
ROSE
Of course I know it's gone. You remind me every day!
RUTH
Your father left us nothing but a legacy of bad debts hidden by a good
name. And that name is the only card we have to play.
Rose turns her around and grabs the corset strings again. Ruth sucks in her
waist and Rose pulls.
RUTH
I don't understand you. It is a fine match with Hockley, and it will insure
our survival.
ROSE
(hurt and lost)
How can you put this on my shoulders?
Rose turns to her, and we see what Rose sees-- the naked fear in her
mother's eyes.
RUTH
Do you want to se me working as a seamstress? Is that what you want? Do you
want to see our fine things sold at an auction, our memories scattered to
the winds? My God, Rose, how can you be so selfish?
ROSE
It's so unfair.
RUTH
Of course it's unfair! We're women. Our choices are never easy.
Rose pulls the corset tighter.
CUT TO:
At the divine service, Captain Smith is leading a group in the hymn
"Almighty Father Strong To Save." Rose and Ruth sing in the middle of the
group.
Lovejoy stands well back, keeping an eye on Rose. He notices a commotion at
the entry doors. Jack has been halted there by two stewards. He is dressed
in his third class clothes, and stands there, hat in hand, looking out of
place.
STEWARD
Look, you, you're not supposed to be in here.
JACK
I was just here last night... don't you remember?
(seeing Lovejoy coming toward him)
He'll tell you.
LOVEJOY
Mr. Hockley and Mrs. DeWitt Bukater continue to be most appreciative of
your assistance. They asked me to give you this in gratitude--
He holds out two twenty dollar bills, which Jack refuses to take.
JACK
I don't want money, I--
LOVEJOY
--and also to remind you that you hold a third class ticket and your
presence here is no longer appropriate.
Jack spots Rose but she doesn't see him.
JACK
I just need to talk to Rose for a--
LOVEJOY
Gentlemen, please see that Mr. Dawson gets back where he belongs.
(giving the twenties to the stewards)
And that he stays there.
STEWARD
Yes sir!
(to Jack)
Come along you.
END ON ROSE, not seeing Jack hustled out.
ROSE
(singing)
O hear us when we cry to thee for those in peril on the sea.
CUT TO:
An Edwardian nautilus room. There are machines we recognize, and some
don't. A woman pedals a stationary bicycle in a long dress, looking
rediculous. Thomas Andrews is leading a small tour group, including Rose,
Ruth and Cal. Cal is wroking the oars of a stationary rowing machine with a
well trained stroke.
CAL
Reminds me of my Harvard days.
T.W. McCAULEY, the gym instructor, is a bouncy little man in white
flannels, eager to show off his modern equipment, like his present-day
counterpart on an "Abflex" infomercial. He hits a switch and a machine with
a saddle on it starts to undulate. Rose puts her hand on it, curious.
MCCAULEY
The electric horse is very popular. We even have an electric camel.
(to Ruth)
Care to try your hand at the rowing, m'am?
RUTH
Don't be absurd. I can't think of a skill I should likely need less.
ANDREWS
The next stop on our tour will be bridge. This way, please.
CUT TO:
HAROLD BRIDE, the 21 year old Junior Wireless Operator, hustles in and
skirts around Andrews' tour group to hand a Marconigram to Captain Smith.
BRIDE
Another ice warning, sir. This one from the "Baltic".
SMITH
Thankyou, Sparks.
Smith glances at the message then nonchalantly puts it in his pocket. He
nods reassuringly to Rose and the group.
SMITH
Not to worry, it's quite normal for this time of year. In fact, we're
speeding up. I've just ordered the last boilers lit.
Andrews scowls slightly before motioning the group toward the door. They
exit just as SECOND OFFICER CHARLES HERBERT LIGHTOLLER comes out of the
chartroom, stopping next to First Officer Murdoch.
LIGHTOLLER
Did we ever find those binoculars for the lookouts?
FIRST OFFICER MURDOCH
Haven't seen them since Southampton.
CUT TO:
Jack closes the door behind her, and glances out through the ripple-glass
window to the starboard rail, where the gym instructor is chatting up the
woman who was riding the bike. Rose and Jack are alone in the room.
ROSE
Jack, this is impossible. I can't see you.
He takes her by the shoulders.
JACK
Rose, you're no picnic... you're a spoiled little brat even, but under that
you're a strong, pure heart, and you're the most amazingly astounding girl
I've ever known and--
ROSE
Jack, I--
JACK
No wait. Let me try to get this out. You're amazing... and I know I have
nothing to offer you, Rose. I know that. But I'm involved now. You jump, I
jump, remember? I can't turn away without knowin' that you're goin' to be
alright.
Rose feels the tears coming to her eyes. Jack is so open and real... not
like anyone she has ever known.
ROSE
You're making this very hard. I'll be fine. Really.
JACK
I don't think so. They've got you in a glass jar like some butterfly, and
you're goin' to die if you don't break out. Maybe not right away, 'cause
you're strong. But sooner or later the fire in you is goin' to go out.
ROSE
It's not up to you to save me, Jack.
JACK
You're right. Only you can do that.
ROSE
I have to get back, they'll miss me. Please, Jack, for both our sakes,
leave me alone.
CUT TO:
The most elegant room on the ship, done in Louis Quinze Versaille style.
Rose sits on a divan, with a group of other women arrayed around her. Ruth,
the Countess Rothes and Lady Duff-Gordon are taking tea. Rose is silent and
still as a porcelain figurine as the conversation washes around her.
RUTH
Of course the invitations had to be sent back to the printers twice. And
the bridesmaids dresses! Let me tell you what an odyssey that has been...
TRACKING SLOWLY IN on Rose as Ruth goes on.
REVERSE, ROSE'S POV: A tabeau of MOTHER and DAUGHTER having tea. The four
year old girl, wearing white gloves, daintily picking up a cookie. The
mother correcting her on her posture, and the way she holds the teacup. The
little girl is trying so hard to please, her expression serious. A glimpse
of Rose at that age, and we see the relentless conditioning... the pain to
becoming an Edwardian geisha.
ON ROSE. She calmly and deliberately turns her teacup over, spilling tea
all over her dress.
ROSE
Oh, look what I've done.
CUT TO:
OLD ROSE blinks, seeming to come back to the present. She sees the wreck on
the screen, the sad ghost ship deep in the abyss.
ROSE
That was the last time Titanic ever saw daylight.
Brock Lovett changes the tape in the minicassette recorder.
BROCK
So we're up to dusk on the night of the sinking. Six hours to go.
BODINE
Don't you love it? There's Smith, he's standing there with the iceberg
warning in his fucking hand...
(remembering Rose)
... excuse me... in his hand, and he's ordering more speed.
BROCK
26 years of experience working against him. He figures anything big enough
to sink the ship they're going to see in time to turn. But the ship's too
big, with too small a rudder... it can't corner worth shit. Everything he
knows is wrong.
ROSE is ignoring this conversation. She has the art-nouveau comb with the
jade butterfly on the handle in her hands, turning it slowly. She is
watching a monitor, which shows the ruins of Suite B-52/56. PUSH IN until
the image fills frame.
TRANSITION:
... 1912. Like in a dream the beautiful woodwork and satin upholstery
emerge from the rusted ruin. Jack is overwhelmed by the opulence of the
room. He sets his sketchbood and drawing materials on the marble table.
ROSE
Will this light do? Don't artists need good light?
JACK
(bad French accent)
Zat is true, I am not used to working in such 'orreeble conditions.
(seeing the paintings)
Hey... Monet!
He crouches next to the paintings stacked against the wall.
JACK
Isn't he great... the use of color? I saw him once... through a hole in
this garden fence in Giverny.
She goes into the adjoining walk-in wardrobe closet. He sees her go to the
safe and start working the combination. He's fascinated.
ROSE
Cal insist on luggin this thing everywhere.
JACK
Should I be expecting him anytime soon?
ROSE
Not as long as the cigars and brandy hold out.
CLUNK! She unlocks the safe. Glancing up, she meets his eyes in the mirror
behind the safe. She opens it and removes the necklace, then holds it out
to Jack who takes it nervously.
JACK
What is it? A sapphire?
ROSE
A diamond. A very rare diamond, called the Heart of the Ocean.
Jack gazes at wealth beyond his comprehension.
ROSE
I want you to draw me like your French girl. Wearing this.
(she smiles at him)
Wearing only this.
He looks up at her, surprised, and we CUT TO:
104 ROSE'S BEDROOM. ON THE BUTTERFLY COMB as Rose draws it out of her hair.
She shakes her head and her hair falls free around her shoulders.
105 IN THE SITTING ROOM Jack is laying out his pencils like surgical tools.
His sketchbook is open and ready. He looks up as she comes into the room,
wearing a silk kimono.
ROSE
The last thing I need is another picture of me looking like a china doll.
As a paying customer, I expect to get what I want.
She hands him a dime and steps back, parting the kimono. The blue stone
lies on her creamy breast. Her heart is pounding as she slowly lowers the
robe.
Jakc looks so stricken, it is almost comical. The kimono drops to the floor
(this is all in cuts, lyrical).
ROSE
Tell me when it looks right to you.
She poses on the divan, settling like a cat into the position we remember
from the drawing... almost.
JACK
Uh... just bend your left leg a little and... and lower your head. Eyes to
me. That's it.
Jack starts to sketch. He drops his pencil and she stifles a laugh.
ROSE
I believe you are blushing, Mr. Big Artiste. I can't imagine Monsieur Monet
blushing.
JACK
(sweating)
He does landscapes.
TIGHT ON JACK as his eyes come up to look at her over the top edge of his
sketchpad. We have seen this image of him before, in her memory. It is an
image she will carry the rest of her life.
Despite his nervousness, he draws with sure strokes, and what emerges is
the best thing he has ever done. Her pose is languid, her hands beautiful,
and her eyes radiate her energy.
PUSH SLOWLY IN ON ROSE'S FACE...
TRANSITION:
MATCH DISSOLVE/MORPH to Rose, 101 years old. Only her eyes are the same.
OLD ROSE
My heart was pounding the whole time. It was the most erotic moment of my
life... up till then at least.
CUT TO REVERSE: A semicircle of listeners staring in rapt, frozen silence.
The story of Jack and Rose has finally and completely grabbed them.
BODINE
What, uh... happened next?
OLD ROSE
(smiling)
You mean, did we "do it"?
CUT TO:
BACK TO 1912. Jack is signing the drawing. Rose, wearing her kimono again,
is leaning on his shoulder, watching.
OLD ROSE (V.O.)
Sorry to disappoint you Mr. Bodine.
Rose gazes at the drawing. He has X-rayed her soul.
ROSE
Date it, Jack. I want to always remember this night.
He does: 4/14/1912. Rose meanwhile scribbles a note on a piece of Titanic
stationary. We don't see what it says. She accepts the drawing from him,
and crosses to the safe in the wardrobe.
She puts the diamond back in the safe, placing hte drawing and the note on
top of it. Closes the door with a CLUNK!
CUT TO:
Lovejoy enters from the Palm Court through the revolving door and crosses
the room toward Hockley. A fire is blazing in the marble fireplace, and the
usual fatcats are playing cards, drinking and talking. Cal sees Lovejoy and
detaches from his group, coming to him.
LOVEJOY
None of the stewards have seen her.
CAL
(low but forceful)
This is ridiculous, Lovejoy. Find her.
CUT TO:
Rose, fully dressed now, returns to the sitting room. They hear a key in
the lock. Rose takes Jack's hand and leads him silently through the
bedrooms. Lovejoy enters by the sitting room door.
LOVEJOY
Miss Rose? Hello?
He hears a door opening and goes through Cal's room toward hers.
CUT TO:
Rose and Jack come out of her stateroom, closing the door. She leads him
quickly along the corridor toward the B deck foyer. They are halfway across
the open space when the sitting room door opens in the corridor and Lovejoy
comes out. The valet sees Jack with Rose and hustles after them.
ROSE
Come on!
She and Jack break into a run, surprising the few ladies and gentlemen
about. Rose leads him past the stairs to the bank of elevators. They run
into one, shocking the hell out of the OPERATOR.
ROSE
Take us down. Quickly, quickly!
The Operator scrambles to comply. Jack even helps him close the steel gate.
Lovejoy runs up as the lift starts to descend. He slams one hand on the
bars of the gate. Rose makes a very rude and unladylike gesture, and laughs
as Lovejoy disappears above. The Operator gapes at her.
CUT TO:
Lovejoy emerges from another lift and runs to the one Jack and Rose were
in. The Operator is just closing the gate to go back up. Lovejoy runs
around the bank of elevators and scans the foyer... no Jack and Rose. He
tries the stairs going down to F-Deck.
CUT TO:
A functional space, with access to a number of machine spaces (fan rooms,
boiler uptakes). Jack and Rose are leaning against a wall, laughing.
JACK
Pretty tough for a valet, this fella.
ROSE
He's an ex-Pinkerton. Cal's father hired him to keep Cal out of trouble...
to make sure he always got back to the hotel with his wallet and watch,
after some crawl through the less reputable parts of town...
JACK
Kinda like we're doin' right now-- uh oh!
Lovejoy has spotted them from a cross-corridor nearby. He charges toward
them. Jack and Rose run around a corner into a blind alley. There is one
door, marked CREW ONLY, and Jack flings it open.
115 They enter a roaring RAN ROOM, with no way out but a ladder going down.
Jack latches the deadbolt on the door, and Lovejoy slams against it a
moment later. Jack grins at Rose, pointing to the ladder.
JACK
After you, m'lady.
CUT TO:
Jack and Rose come down the escape ladder and look around in amazement. It
is like a vision of hell itself, with the roaring furnaces and black
figures moving in the smoky glow. They run the length of the boiler room,
dodging amazed stokers, and trimmers with their wheelbarrows of coal.
JACK
(shouting over the din)
Carry on! Don't mind us!
They run through the open watertight door into BOILER ROOM SIX. Jack pulls
her through the fiercely hot alley between two boilers and they wind up in
the dark, out of sight of the working crew. Watching from the shadows, they
see the stokers working in the hellish glow, shovelling coal into the
insatiable maws of the furnaces. The whole place thunders with the roar of
the fires.
CUT TO:
Amid unparalled luxury, Cal sits at a card game, sipping brandy.
COLONEL GRACIE
We're going like hell I tel you. I have fifty dollars that says we make it
into New York Tuesday night!
Cal looks at his gold pocket watch, and scowls, not listening.
CUT TO:
118 OMITTED
The furnaces roar, silhouetting the glistening stokers. Jack kisses Rose's
face, tasting the sweat trickling down from her forehead. They kiss
passionately in the steamy, pounding darkness.
CUT TO:
Jack and Rose enter and run laughing between the rows of stacked cargo. She
hugs herself against the cold, after the dripping heat of the boiler room.
They come upon William Carter's brand new RENAULT touring car, lashing down
to a pallet. It looks like a royal coach from a fairy tale, its brass trim
and headlamps nicely set off by its deep burgundy color.
Rose climbs into the plushly upholstered back seat, acting very royal.
There are cut crystals bud vases on the walls back there, each containing a
rose. Jack jumps into the driver's seat, enjoying hte feel of the leather
and wood.
JACK
Where to, Miss?
ROSE
To the stars.
ON JACK as her hands come out of the shadows and pull him over the seat
into the back. He lands next to her, and his breath seems loud in the quiet
darkness. He looks at her and she is smiling. It is the moment of truth.
JACK
Are you nervous?
ROSE
Au contraire, mon cher.
He strokes her face, cherishing her. She kisses his artist's fingers.
ROSE
Put your hands on me Jack.
He kisses her, and she slides down in the seat under his welcome weight.
CUT TO:
A BRILLIANT ARC OF ELECTRICITY fills frame-- the sparks gap of the Marconi
instrument as SENIOR WIRELESS OPERATOR JACK PHILLIPS (24) rapidly keys out
a message. Junior Operator Bride looks through the huge stack of outgoing
messages swamping them.
BRIDE
Look at this one, he wants his private train to meet him. La dee da.
(slaps them down)
We'll be up all bloody night on this lot.
Phillips start to receive an incoming message from a nearby ship, the
Leyland frieghter CALIFORNIAN, which jams his outgoing signal. At such
close range, the beeps are deafening.
PHILLIPS
Christ! It's that idiot on the Californian.
Cursing, Phillips furiously keys a rebuke.
CUT TO:
Wireless Operater CYRIL EVANS pulls his earphone off his ear as the
Titanic's spark deafens him. he translates the message for THIRD OFFICER
GROVES.
EVANS
Stupid bastard. I try to warn him about the ice, and he says "Keep out.
Shut up. I'm working Cape Race."
GROVES
Now what's he sending?
EVANS
"No seasickness. Poker business good. Al". Well that's it for me. I'm
shutting down.
As Evans wearily switches off his generator, Groves goes out on deck. PAN
oFF Him to reveal the ship is stopped fifty yards from the edge of a field
of pack ice and icebergs stretching as far as the eye can see.
CUT TO:
PUSHING IN on the rear window of the Renault, which is completely fogged
up. Rose's hand comes up and slams against the glass for a moment, making a
handprint in the veil of condensation.
INSIDE THE CAR, Jack's overcoat is liek a blanket over them. It stirs and
Rose pulls it down. They are huddled under it, intertwined, still mostly
clothed. Their faces are flushed and they look at each other wonderingly.
She puts her hand on his face, as if making sure he is real.
ROSE
You're trembling.
JACK
It's okay. I'm alright.
He lays his cheek against her chest.
JACK
I can feel your heart beating.
She hugs his head to her chest, and just holds on for dear life.
OLD ROSE (V.O.)
Well, I wasn't the first teenage girl to get seduced in the backseat of a
car, and certainly not the last, by several million. He had such fine
hands, artists' hands, but strong too... roughened by work. I remember
their touch even now.
CUT TO:
Without hearing hte words over the roar of the furnaces, we see stokers
telling TWO STEWARDS which way Rose and Jack went. The stewards move off
toward the forward holds.
CUT TO:
Cal stands at the open safe. He stares at the drawing of Rose and his face
clenches with fury. He reads the not again: "DARLING, NOW YOU CAN KEEP US
BOTH LOCKED IN YOUR SAFE, ROSE".
Lovejoy, standing behind him, looks over his shoulder at the drawing. Cal
crumples Rose's not, then takes the drawing in both hands as if to rip it
in half. He tenses to do it, then stops himself.
CAL
I have a better idea.
CUT TO:
The two stewards enter. They have electric torches and play the beams
around the hold. They spot the Renault with its fogged up rear window and
approach it slowly.
FROM INSIDE we see the torch light up Rose's passionate handprint, still
there on the fogged up glass. One steward whips open the door.
STEWARD
Got yer!
REVERSE: the back seat is empty.
CUT TO:
Inside the enclosed wheelhous, SIXTH OFFICER MOODY walks unhurriedly to the
telephone, picking it up.
FLEET (V.O.)
Is someone there?
MOODY
Yes. What do you see?
FLEET
Iceberg right ahead!
MOODY
Thankyou.
(hangs up, calls to Murdoch)
Iceberg right ahead!
Murdoch sees it and rushes to the engine room telegraph. While signaling
"FULL SPEED ASTERN" he yells to Quartermaster Hitchins, who is at the
wheel.
MURDOCH
Hard a' starboard.
MOODY
(standing behind Hitchins)
Hard'a starboard. The helm is hard over, sir.
CRASH SEQUENCE / SERIES OF CUTS:
132 CHIEF ENGINEER BELL is just checking the soup he has warming on a steam
manifold when the engine telegraph clangs, then goes... incredibly... to
FULL SPEED ASTERN. He and the other ENGINEERS just stare at it a second,
unbelieving. Then Bell reacts.
BELL
Full astern! FULL ASTERN!!
The engineers and greasers like madmen to close steam valves and start
braking the mighty propeller shafts, big as Sequias, to a stop.
133 IN BOILER ROOM SIX, Leading Stoker FREDERICK BARRETT is standing with
2nd Engineer JAMES HESKETH when the red warning light and "STOP" indicator
come on.
BARRETT
Shut all dampers! Shut 'em!!
134 FROM THE BRIDGE Murdoch watches the burg growing... straight ahead. The
bow finally starts to come left (since the ship turns the reverse of the
helm setting).
MURDOCH'S jaw clenches as the bow turns with agonizing slowness. He holds
his breath as the horrible physics play out.
135 IN THE CROW'S NEST Frederick Fleet braces himself.
136 THE BOW OF THE SHIP thunders right at CAMERA and--
KRUUUNCH!! The ship hits the berg on its starboard bow.
137 UNDERWATER we see the ice smashing in the steel hull plates. The
iceberg bumps and scrapes along the side of the ship. Rivets pop as the
steel plate of the hull flexes under the load.
138 IN #2 HOLD the two stewards stagger as the hull buckles in four feet
with a sound like THUNDER. Like a sledgehammer beating along outside the
ship, the berg splits the hull plates and the sea pour in, sweeping them
off their feert. The icy water swirls around the Renault as the men
scramble for the stairs.
139 ON G-DECK forward Fabrizio is tossed in his bunk by the impact. He
hears a sound like the greatly amplified squeal of a skate on ice.
140 IN BOILER ROOM SIX Barret and Hesketh stagger as they hear the ROLLING
THUNDER of the collision. They see the starboard side of the ship buckle in
toward them and are almost swept off their feet by a rush of water coming
in about two feet above the floor.
141 ON THE FORWARD WELL DECK Jack and Rose break their kiss and look up in
astonishment as the berg sails past, blocking out the sky like a mountain.
Fragments break off it and crash down onto the deck, and they have to jump
back to avoid flying chunks of ice.
142 ON THE BRIDGE Murdoch rings the watertight door alarm. He quicky throws
the switch that closes them.
MURDOCH
Hard a 'port!
Judging the berg to be amidships, he is trying to clear the stern.
143 BARRETT AND HESKETH hear the DOOR ALARM and scramble through the
swirling water to the watertight door between Boiler Rooms 6 and 5. The
room is full of water vapor as the cold sea strikes the red hot furnaces.
Barrett yells to the stokers scrambling through the door as it comes down
like a slow guillotine.
BARRETT
Go Lads! Go! Go!
He dives through into Boiler Room 5 just before the door rumbles down with
a CLANG.
144 JACK AND ROSE rush to the starboard rail in time to see the berg moving
aft down the side of the ship.
145 In his stateroom, surrounded by piles of plans while making notes in
his ever-present book, Andrews looks up at the sound of a cut-crystal light
fixture tinkling like a windchime.
He feels the shudder run through the ship. And we see it in his face. Too
much of his soul is in this great ship for him not to feel its mortal
wound.
146 IN THE FIRST CLASS SMOKING ROOM Gracie watches his highball vibrating
on the table.
147 IN THE PALM COURT, with its high arched windows, Molly Brown holds up
her drink to a passing waiter.
MOLLY
Hey, can I get some ice here, please?
Silently, a moving wall of ice fills the window behind her. She doesn't see
it. It disappears astern.
148 OMITTED
149 IN THE CROW'S NEST Fleet turns to his Lee...
FLEET
Oy, mate... that was a close shave.
LEE
Smell ice, can you? Bleedin' Christ!
CUT TO:
CLOSE ON MURDOCH. The alarm bells still clatter mindlessly, seeming to
reflect his inner state. He is in shock, unable to get a grip on what just
happened. He just ran the biggest ship in history into an iceberg on its
maiden voyage.
MURDOCH
(stiffly, to Moody)
Note the time. Enter it in the log.
Captain Smith rushes out of his cabin onto the bridge, tucking in his
shirt.
SMITH
What was that, Mr. Murdoch?
MURDOCH
An iceberg, sir. I put her hard a' starboard and run the engines full
astern, but it was too close. I tried to port around it, but she hi... and
I--
SMITH
Close the emergency doors.
MURDOCH
The doors are closed.
Together they rush out onto the starboard wing, and Murdoch points. Smith
looks into the darkness aft, then wheels around to FOURTH OFFICER BOHALL.
SMITH
Find the Carpenter and get him to sound the ship.
CUT TO:
In steerage, Fabrizio comes out into the hall to see what's going on. He
sees dozens of rats running toward him in the corridor, fleeing the
flooding bow. Fabrizio jumps aside as the rats run by.
FABRIZIO
Ma-- che cazzo!
152 IN HIS STATEROOM Tommy gets out of his top bunk in the dark and drops
down to the floor. SPLASH!!
TOMMMY
Cor!! What in hell--?!
He naps on the light. The floor is covered with 3 inches of freezing water,
and more coming in. He pulls the door open, and steps out into the
corridor, which is flooded. Fabrizio is running toward him, yelling
something in Italian. Tommy and Fabrizio start pounding on doors, getting
everybody up and out. The alarm spreads in several languages.
CUT TO:
A couple of people have come out into the corridor in robes and slippers. A
STeWARD hurries along, reassuring them.
WOMAN
Why have the engines stopped? I felt a shudder?
STEWARD #1
I shouldn't worry, m'am. We've likely thrown a propeller blade, that's the
shudder you felt. May I bring you anything?
THOMAS ANDREWS brushes past them, walking fast and carrying an armload of
rolled up ship's plans.
CUT TO:
Fabrizio and Tommy are in a crowd of steerage men clogging the corridors,
heading aft away from the flooding. Many of them have grabbed suitcases and
duffel bags, some of which are soaked.
TOMMY
If this is the direction the rats were runnin', it's good enough for me.
CUT TO:
Bruce Ismay, dressed in pajamas under the topcoat, hurries down the
corridor, headed for the bridge. An officious steward named BARNES comes
along the other direction, getting the few concerned passengers back into
their rooms.
STEWARD BARNES
There's no cause for alarm. Please, go back to your rooms.
He is stopped in his tracks by Cal and Lovejoy.
STEWARD BARNES
Please, sir. There's no emergency--
CAL
Yes there is, I have been robbed. Now get the Master at Arms. Now you
moron!
CUT TO:
C.U. CAPTAIN SMITH studying the commutator.
He turns to Andrews, standing behind him.
SMITH
A five degree list in less than ten minutes.
SHIP'S CARPENTER JOHN HUTCHINSON enters behind him, out of breath and
clearly unnerved.
HUTCHINSON
She's making water fast... in the forepeak tank and the forward holds, in
boiler room six.
ISMAY enters, his movements quick with anger and frustration. Smith glances
at him with annoyance.
ISMAY
Why have we stopped?
SMITH
We've struck ice.
ISMAY
Well, do you think the ship is seriously damaged?
SMITH
(glaring)
Excuse me.
Smith pushes past him, with Andrews and Hutchinson in tow.
CUT TO:
Strokers and firemen are struggling to draw the fires. They are working in
waist deep water churning around as it flows into the boiler room, ice cold
and swirling with grease from the machinery. Chief Engineer Bell comes
partway down the ladder and shouts.
BELL
That's it, lads. Get the hell up!
They scramble up the escape ladders.
CUT TO:
Jack and Rose cross the foyer, entering the corridor. Lovejoy is waiting
for them in the hall as they approach the room.
LOVEJOY
We've been looking for you miss.
Lovejoy follows and, unseen, moves close behind Jack and smoothly slips the
diamond necklace into the pocket of his overcoat.
CUT TO:
Cal and Ruth wait in the sitting room, along with the Master at Arms and
two stewards (Steward #1 and Barnes). Silence as Rose and Jack enter. Ruth
closes her robe at her throat when she sees Jack.
ROSE
Something serious has happened.
CAL
That's right. Two things dear to me have disappeared this evening. Now that
one is back...
(he looks from Rose to Jack)
... I have a pretty good idea where to fine the other.
(to Master at Arms)
Search him.
The Master at Arms steps up to Jack.
MASTER AT ARMS
Coat off, mate.
Lovejoy pulls at Jack's coat and Jack shakes his head in dismay, shrugging
out of it. The Master at Arms pats him down.
JACK
This is horseshit.
ROSE
Cal, you can't be serious! We're in the middle of an emergency and you--
Steward Barnes pulls the Heart of the Ocean out of the pocket of Jack's
coat.
STEWARD BARNES
Is this it?
Rose is stunned. Needless to say, so is Jack.
CAL
That's it.
MASTER AT ARMS
Right then. Now don't make a fuss.
He starts to handcuff Jack.
JACK
Don't you believe it, Rose. Don't!
ROSE
(uncertain)
He couldn't have.
CAL
Of course he could. Easy enough for a professional. He memorized the
combination when you opend the safe.
FLASHBACK: Rose at the safe, looking in the mirror and meeting Jack's eyes
as he stands behind her, watching.
ROSE
But I was with him the whole time.
CAL
(just to her, low and cold)
Maybe he did it while you were putting your clothes back on.
JACK
They put it in my pocket!
LOVEJOY
(holding Jack's coat)
It's not even your pocket, son.
(reading)
"Property of A. L. Ryerson".
Lovejoy shows the coat to the Master at Arms. There is a label inside the
collar with the owner's name.
MASTER AT ARMS
That was reported stolen today.
JACK
I was going to return it! Rose--
Rose feels utterly betrayed, hurt and confused. She shrinks away from him.
He starts shouting to her as Lovejoy and the Master at Arms drag him out
into the hall. She can't look him in the eye.
JACK
Rose, don't listen to them... I didn't do this! You know I didn't! You know
it!
She is devastated. Her mother lays a comforting hand on her shoulder as te
tears well up.
RUTH
Why do women believe men?
CUT TO:
Smith and Andrews come down the steps to the Mail Sorting Room and finds
the clerks scrambling to pull mail from the racks. They are furiously
hauling wet sacks of mail up from the hold below.
Andrews climbs partway down the stairs to the hold, which is almost full.
Sacks of mail float everywhere. The lights are still on below the surface,
casting an eerie glow. The Renault is visible under the water, the brass
glinting cheerfully. Andrews looks down as the water covers his shoe, and
scrambles back up the stairs.
CUT TO:
Andrews unrolls a big drawing of the ship across the chartroom table. It is
a side elevation, showing all the watertight bulkheads. His hands are
shaking. Murdoch and Ismay hover behind Andrews and the Captain.
ISMAY
When can we get underway, do you think?
Smith glares at him and turns his attention to Andrews' drawing. The
builder points to it for emphasis as he talks.
ANDREWS
Water 14 feet above the keel in ten minutes... in the forepeak... in all
three holds... and in boiler room six.
SMITH
That's right.
ANDREWS
Five compartments. She can stay afloat with the first four compartments
breached. But not five. Not five. As she goes down by the head the water
will spill over the tops of the bulkheads... at E Deck... from one to the
next... back and back. There's no stopping it.
SMITH
The pumps--
ANDREWS
The pumps buy you time... but minutes only. From this moment, no matter
what we do, Titanic will founder.
ISMAY
But this ship can't sink!
ANDREWS
She is made of iron, sir. I assure you, she can. And she will. It is a
mathematical certainty.
Smith looks like he has been gutpunched.
SMITH
How much time?
ANDREWS
An hour, two at most.
Ismay reels as his dream turns into his worst nightmare.
SMITH
And how many aboard, Mr. Murdoch?
MURDOCH
Two thousand two hundred souls aboard, sir.
A long beat. Smith turns to his employer.
SMITH
I believe you may get your headlines, Mr. Ismay.
CUT TO:
From inside the sitting room they can hear knocking and voices in the
corridor.
RUTH
I had better go dress.
Ruth exits and Hockley crosses to Rose. He regards her coldly for a moment,
then SLAPS her across the face.
CAL
It is a little slut, isn't it?
To Rose the blow is inconsequential compared to the blow her heart has been
given. Cal grabs her shoulders roughly.
CAL
Look at me, you little--
There is a loud knock on the door and an urgent voice. The door opens and
their steward puts his head in.
STEWARD BARNES
Sir, I've been told to ask you to please put on your lifebelt, and come up
to the boat deck.
CAL
Get out. We're busy.
The steward persists, coming in to get the lifebelts down from the top of a
dresser.
STEWARD
I'm sorry about the inconvenience, Mr. Hockley, but it's Captain's orders.
Please dress warmly, it's quite cold tonight.
(he hands a lifebelt to Rose)
Not to worry, miss, I'm sure it's just a precaution.
CAL
This is ridiculous.
In the corridor outside the stewards are being so polite and obsequious
they are conveying no sense of danger whatsoever. However, it's another
story in...
CUT TO:
BLACKNESS. Then BANG! The door is thrown open and the lights snapped on by
a steward. The Cartmell family rouses from a sound sleep.
STEWARD #2
Everybody up. Let's go. Put your lifebelts on.
IN THE CORRIDOR outside, another steward is going from door to door along
the hall, pouncing and yelling.
STEWARD #2
Lifebelts on. Lifebelts on. Everybody up, come on. Lifebelts on...
People come out of the doors behind the steward, perplexed. In the
foreground a SYRIAN WOMAN asks her husband what was said. He shrugs.
CUT TO:
ON PHILLIPS, looking shocked.
PHILLIPS
CQD, sir?
SMITH
That's right. The distress call. CQD. Tell whoever responds that we are
going down by the head and need immediate assistance.
Smith hurries out.
PHILLIPS
Blimey.
BRIDE
Maybe you ought to try that new distress call... S.O.S.
(grinning)
It may be our only chance to use it.
Phillips laughs in spite of himself and starts sending history's first
S.O.S. Dit dit dit, da da da, dit dit dit... over and over.
CUT TO:
A large number of First Class passengers have gathered near the staircase.
They are getting indignant about the confusion. Molly Brown snags a passing
YOUNG STEWARD.
MOLLY
What's doing, sonny? You've got us all trussed up and now we're cooling our
heels.
The young steward backs away, actually stumbling on the stairs.
YOUNG STEWARD
Sorry, mum. Let me go and find out.
The jumpy piano rhythm of "Alexander's Ragtime Band" comes out of the first
class lounge a few yards away. Band leader WALLACE HARTLEY has assembled
some of his men on Captain's orders, to allay panic.
Hockley's entourage comes up to the A-deck foyer. Cal is carrying the
lifebelts, almost as an afterthought. Rose is like a sleepwalker.
CAL
It's just the God damned English doing everything by the book.
RUTH
There's no need for language, Mr. Hockley.
(to Trudy)
Go back and turn the heater on in my room, so it won't be too cold when we
get back.
Thomas Andrews enters, looking around the magnificent room, which he knows
is doomed. Rose, standing nearby, sees his heartbroken expression. She
walks over to him and Cal goes after her.
ROSE
I saw the iceberg, Mr. Andrews. And I see it in your eyes. Please tell me
the truth.
ANDREWS
The ship will sink.
ROSE
You're certain?
ANDREWS
Yes. In an hour or so... all this... will be at the bottom of the Atlantic.
CAL
My God.
Now it is Cal's turn to look stunned. The Titanic? Sinking?
ANDREWS
Please tell only who you must, I don't want to be responsible for a panic.
And get to a boat quickly. Don't wait. You remember what I told you about
the boats?
ROSE
Yes, I understand. Thankyou.
Andrews goes off, moving among the passengers and urging them to put on
their lifebelts and get to the boats.
CUT TO:
Lovejoy and the Master at Arms are handcuffing Jack to a 4" WATER PIPE as a
crewman rushes in anxiously and almost blurts to the Master at Arms--
CREWMAN
You're wanted by the Purser, sir. Urgently.
LOVEJOY
Go on. I'll keep an eye on him.
Lovejoy pulls a pearl handled Colt .45 automatic from under his coat. The
Master at Arms nods and tosses the handcuff key to Lovejoy, then exits with
the crewman. Lovejoy flips the key in the air. Catches it.
CUT TO:
Junior Wireless Operator Bride is relaying a message to Captain Smith from
the CUNARD LINER CARPATHIA.
BRIDE
Carpathia says they're making 17 knots, full steam for them, sir.
SMITH
And she's the only one who's responding?
BRIDE
The only one close, sir. She says they can be here in four hours.
SMITH
Four hours!
The enormity of it hits Smith like a sledgehammer blow.
SMITH
Thank you, Bride.
He turns as Bride exits, and looks out onto the blackness.
SMITH
(to himself)
My God.
CUT TO:
It is chaos, with stewards pushing their way through narrow corridors
clogged with peopel carrying suitcases, duffel bags, children. Some have
lifebelts on, others don't.
STEWARD #2
(to Steward #3)
I told the stupid sods no luggage. Aw, bloody hell!
He throws up his hand at the sight of a family, loaded down with cases and
bags, completely blocking the corridor.
Fabrizio and Tommy push past the stewards, going the other way. They rech a
huge crowd gathered at the bottom of the MAIN 3RD CLASS STAIRWELL. Fabrizio
spots Helga with the rest of the Dahl family, standing patiently with
suitcases in hand. He reaches her and she grins, hugging him.
Tommy pushes to where he can see what's holding up the group. There is a
steel gate across the top of the stairs, with several stewards and seamen
on the other side.
STEWARD
Stay calm, please. It's not time to go up to the boats yet.
Near Tommy, an IRISHWOMAN stands stoically with two small children and
their battered luggage.
LITTLE BOY
What are we doing, mummy?
WOMAN
We're just waiting, dear. When they fiish putting First Class people in the
boats, they'll be startin' with us, and we'll want to be all ready, won't
we?
CUT TO:
TRACKING along the rows of portholes angling down into the water. Under the
surface, they glow green. PUSHING IN on one porthole which is have
submerged. Inside we see Jack, looking apprehensively at the water rising
up the glass.
INSIDE THE MASTER AT ARMS' OFFICE Jack sits chained to the waterpipe, next
to the porthole. Lovejoy sits on the edge of a desk. He puts a .45 bullet
on the desk and watches it roll across and fall off. He picks up the
bullet.
LOVEJOY
You know... I believe this ship may sink.
(crosses to Jack)
I've been asked to give you this small token of our appreciation...
He punches Jack hard in the stomach, knocking the wind out of him.
LOVEJOY
Compliments of Mr. Caledon Hockley.
Lovejoy flips the handcuff key in the air, catches it and puts it in his
pocket. He exits. Jack is left gasping, handcuffed to the pipe.
CUT TO:
Cal runs in, and down to the landing, pushing past the gentlemen and ladies
who are filling up the stairs. He scans the A-deck foyer. Rose is gone.
CUT TO:
Jack pulls on the pipe with all his strength. It's not budging. He hears
gurgling sound. Water pours under the door, spreading rapidly across the
floor.
JACK
Shit.
He tries to pull one hand out of the cuffs, working until the skin is
raw... no good.
JACK
Help!! Somebody!! Can anybody hear me?!
(to himself)
This could be bad.
181 THE CORRIDOR outside is deserted. Flooded a couple of inches deep.
Jack's voice comes faintly through the door, but there is no one to hear
it.
CUT TO:
Thomas Andrews is opening stateroom doors, checking that people are out.
ANDREWS
Anyone in here?
Rose runs up to him, breathless.
ROSE
Mr. Andrews, thank God! Where would the Master at Arms take someone under
arrest?!
ANDREWS
What? You have to get to a boat right away!
ROSE
No! I'll do this with or without your help, sir. But without will take
longer.
ANDREWS
(beat)
Take the elevator to the very bottom, go left, down the crewman's passage,
then make a right.
ROSE
Bottom, left, right. I have it.
ANDREWS
Hurry, Rose.
CUT TO:
Rose runs up as the last Elecator Operator is closing up his lift to leave.
OPERATOR
Sorry, miss, lifts are closed--
Without thinking she grabs him and shoves him back into the lift.
ROSE
I'm through with being polite, goddamnit!! I may never be polite the rest
of my life! Now take me down!!
The operator fumbles to close the gate and start the lift.
CUT TO:
Through the wrought iron door of the elevator car Rose can see the decks
going past. The lift slows. Suddenly ICE WATER is swirling around her legs.
She SCREAMS in surprise. So does the operator.
The car has landed in a foot of freezing water, shocking the hell out of
her. She claws the door open and splashes out, hiking up her floor-length
skirt so she can move. The lift goes back up, behind her, as she looks
around.
ROSE
Left, crew passage.
She spots it and slogs down the flooded corridor. The place is
understandably deserted. She is on her own.
ROSE
Right, right... right.
She turns into a cross-corridor, splashing down the hall. A row of doors on
each side.
ROSE
Jack? Jaaacckk??
CUT TO:
Jack is hopelessly pulling on the pipe again, straining until he turns red.
He collapses back on the bench. realizing he's screwed. Then he hears her
through the door.
JACK
ROSE!! In here!
187 IN THE HALL Rose hears his voice behind her. She spins and runs back,
locating the right door, then pushes it open, creating a small wave.
She splashes over Jack and puts her arms around him.
ROSE
Jack, Jack, Jack... I'm sorry, I'm so sorry.
They are so happy to see each other it's embarrassing.
JACK
That guy Lovejoy put it in my pocket.
ROSE
I know, I know.
JACK
See if you can find a key for these. Try those drawers. It's a little brass
one.
She kisses his face and hugs him again, then starts to go through the desk.
JACK
So... how did you find out I didn't do it?
ROSE
I didn't.
(she looks at him)
I just realized I already knew.
They share a look, then she goes back to ransacking the room, searching
drawers and cupboards. Jack sees movement out the porthole and looks out.
A LIFEBOAT hits the surface of the water, seen from below.
CUT TO:
Rose stops trashing the room, and stands there, breathing hard.
ROSE
There's no key in here.
They look around at the water, now almost two feet deep. Jack has pulled
his feet up onto the bench.
JACK
You have to go for help.
ROSE
(nodding)
I'll be right back.
JACK
I'll wait here.
She runs out, looking back at him once from the doorway, then splashes
away. Jack looks down at the swirling water.
CUT TO:
Rose splashes down the hall to a stairwell going up to the next deck. She
climbs the stairs, her long skirt leaving a trail like a giant snail. The
weight of it is really slowing her down. She rips at the buttons and
shimmies quickly out of the thing. She bounds up the stairs in her
stockings and knee-length slip, to find herself in--
191 A LONG CORRIDOR... part of the labyrinth of steerage hallways forward.
She is alone here. A long groan of stressing metal echoes along the hall as
the ship continues to settle. She runs down the hall, unimpeded now.
ROSE
Hello? Somebody?!
She turns a corner and runs along another corridor in a daze. The hall
slopes down into water which, shimmers, reflecting the light. The margin of
the water creeps toward her. A YOUNG MAN appears, running through the
water, sending up geysers of spray. He pelts past her without slowing, his
eyes crazed...
ROSE
Help me! We need help!
He doesn't look back. It is like a bad dream. The hull gongs with
terrifying sounds.
The lights flicker and go out, leaving utter darkness. A beat. Then they
come back on. She finds herself hyperventilating. That one moment of
blackness was the most terrifying of her life.
A STEWARD runs around the nearest corner, his arms full of lifebelts. He is
upset to see someone still in his section. He grabs her forcefully by the
arm, pulling her with him like a wayward child.
STEWARD
Come on, then, let's get you topside, miss, that's right.
ROSE
Wait. Wait! I need your help! There's--
STEWARD
No need for panic, miss. Come along!
ROSE
No, let me go! You're going the wrong way!
He's not listening. And he won't let her go.
She SHOUTS in his ear, and when he turns, she punches him squarely in the
nose. Shocked, he lets her go and staggers back.
STEWARD
To Hell with you!
ROSE
See you there, buster!
The steward runs off, holding his bloody nose. She spits after him. Just
the way Jack taugh: her.
She turns around, SEES: a glass case with a fire-axe in it. She breaks the
glass with a battered suitcase which is lying discarded nearby, and seizes
the axe, running back the way she came.
192 AT THE STAIRWELL she looks down and gasps. The water has flooded the
bottom five steps. She goes down and has to crouch to look along the
corridor to the room where Jack is trapped.
Rose plunges into the water, which is up to her waist... and powers
forward, holding the axe above her head in two hands. She grimaces at the
pain from the literally freezing water.
CUT TO:
Jack has climbed up on the bench, and is hugging the waterpipe. Rose wades
in, holding the axe above her head.
ROSE
Will this work?
JACK
We'll find out.
They are both terrified, but trying to keep panic at bay. He positions the
chain connecting the two cuffs, stretching it taut across the steel pipe.
The chain is of course very short, and his exposed wrists are on either
side of it.
JACK
Try a couple practice swings.
Rose hefts the axe and thunks it into a wooden cabinet.
JACK
Now try to hit the same mark again.
She swings hard and the blade thunks in four inches from the mark.
JACK
Okay, that's enough practice.
He winces, bracing himself as she raises the axe. She has to hit a target
about an inch wide with all the foce she can muster, with his hands on
either side.
JACK
(sounding calm)
You can do it, Rose. Hit it as hard as you can, I trust you.
Jack closes his eyes. So does she.
The axe comes down. K-WHANG! Rose gingerly opens her eyes looks... Jack is
grinning with two separate cuffs.
Rose drops the axe, all the strength going out of her.
JACK
Nice work, there, Paul Bunyan.
He climbs down into the water next to her. He can't breathe for a second.
JACK
Shit! Excuse my French. Ow ow ow, that is cold! Come on, let's go.
They wade out into the hall. Rose starts toward the stiars going up, but
Jack stops her. There is only about a foot of the stairwell opening
visible.
JACK
Too deep. We gotta find another way out.
CUT TO:
The widest passageway in the ship, it is used by crew and steerage alike,
and runs almost the length of the ship. Right now steerage passengers move
along it like refugees, heading aft.
CRASH! A wooden doorframe splinters and the door bursts open under the
force of Jack's shoulder. Jack and Rose stumble through, into the corridor.
A STEWARD, who was nearby herding people along, marches over.
STEWARD
Here you! You'll have to pay for that, you know. That's White Star Line
property--
JACK AND ROSE
(turning together)
Shutup!
Jack leads her past the dumbfounded steward. They join the steerage
stragglers going aft. In places the corridor is almost completely blocked
by large families carrying all their luggage.
AN IRISH WOMAN gives Rose a blanket, more for modesty than because she is
blue-lipped and shivering.
IRISHWOMAN
Here, lass, cover yerself.
Jack rubs her arms and tries to warm her up as they walk along. The woman's
husband offers them a flask of whiskey.
IRISHMAN
This'll take the chill off.
Rose takes a mighty belt and hands it to Jack. He grins and follows suit.
Jack tries a number of DOORS and IRON GATES along the way, finding them all
locked.
CUT TO:
Fabrizio, standing with Helga Dahl and her family, hears Jack's voice.
JACK
Fabrizio! Fabri!
Fabrizio turns and sees Jack and Rose pushing through the crowd. He and
Jack hug like brothers.
FABRIZIO
The boats are all going.
JACK
We gotta get up there or we're gonna be gargling saltwater. Where's Tommy?
Fabrizio points over the heads of the solidly packed crowd to the
stairwell.
Tommy has his hands on the bars of the steel gate which blocks the head of
the stairwell. The crew open the gate a foot or so and a few women are
squeezing through.
STEWARD #2
Women only. No men. No men!!
But some terrified men, not understanding English, try to rush through the
gap, forcing the gate open. The crewmen and stewards push them back,
shoving and punching them.
STEWARD #2
Get back! Get back you lot!
(to the crewmen)
Lock it!!
They struggle to get the gate closed again, while Steward #2 brandishes a
small revolver. Another holds a fire axe. They lock the gate, and a cry
goes up among the crowd, who surge forward, pounding against the steel and
shouting in several languages.
TOMMY
For the love of God, man, there are children down here! Let us up, so we
can have a chance!
But the crewmen are scared now. They have let the situation get out of
hand, and now they have a mob. Tommy gives up and pushes his way back
through the crowd, going down the stairs. He rejoins Jack, Rose and
Fabrizio.
TOMMY
It's hopeless that way.
JACK
Well, whatever we're goin' to do, we better do it fast.
Fabrizio turns to Helga, praying he can make himself understood.
FABRIZIO
(with a lot of hand gestures)
Everyone... all of you... come with me now. We go to the boats. We go to
the boats. Capito? Come now!
They can't understand what he's saying. They can see his urgency, but OLUF
DAHL, the patriarch of the family, shakes his head. He will not panic, and
will not let his family go with this boy. Fabrizio turns to Helga.
FABRIZIO
Helga... per favore... please... come with me, I am lucky. Is my destiny to
go to America.
She kisses him, then steps back to be with her family. Jack lays a hand on
his shoulder, his eyes saying "Let's go".
FABRIZIO
I will never forget you.
He turns to Jack, who leads the way out of the crowd. Looking back Fabrizio
sees her face disappear into the crowd.
CUT TO:
202 OMITTED
203 OMITTED
CLUNK! Cal opens his safe and reaches inside. As Lovejoy watches, he pulls
out two stacks of bills, still banded by bank wrappers. Then he takes out
"Heart of the Ocean", putting it in the pocket of his overcoat, and locks
the safe.
CAL
(holding up stacks of bills)
I make my own luck.
LOVEJOY
(putting the .45 in his waistband)
So do I.
Cal grins, putting the money in his pocket as they go out.
CUT TO:
Jack, Rose, Fabrizio and Tommy are lost, searching for a way out. They push
past confused passengers... past a mother changing her baby's diaper on top
of an upturned steamer trunk... past a woman arguing heatedly with a man in
Serbo-Croatian, a wailing child next to them... past a man kneeling to
console a woman who is just sitting on the floor, sobbing... and past
another man with an English/Arabic dictionary, trying to figure out what
the signs mean, while his wife and children wait patiently.
Jack et al come upon a narrow stairwell and they go up two decks before
they are stopped by a small group pressed up against a steel gate. The
steerage men are yelling at a scared STEWARD.
STEWARD
Go to the main stairwell, with everyone else. It'll all get sorted out
there.
Jack takes one look at this scene and finally just loses it.
JACK
God damn it to Hell son of a bitch!!
He grabs one end of a bench bolted to the floor on the landing. He starts
pulling on it, and Tommy and Fabrizio pitch in until the bolts shear and it
breaks free. Rose figures out what they are doing and clears a path up the
stairs between the waiting people.
ROSE
Move aside! Quickly, move aside!
Jack and Tommy run up the steps with the bench and RAM IT INTO THE GATE
with all their strength. It rips loose from its track and falls outward,
narrowly mssing the steward. Led by Jack, the crowd surges though. Rose
steps up to the cowering steward and says in her most imperious tone:
ROSE
If you have any intention of keeping your pathetic job
(MORE)
ROSE (CONT'D)
with the White Star Line, I suggest you escort these good people to the
boat deck... now.
Class wins out. He nods dumbly motions form them to follow.
CUT TO:
As Cal and Lovejoy cross the foyer encounter Benjamin Guggenheim and his
valet, coth dressed in white tie, tail-coats and top hats.
CAL
Ben, what's the occasion?
GUGGENHEIM
We have dressed in our best and are prepared to go down like gentlemen.
CAL
That's admirable, Ben.
(walking on)
I'll sure and tell your wife... when I get to New York.
CUT TO:
There are still two cardgames in progress. The room is quiet and civilized.
A silver serving cart, holding a large humidor, begins to roll slowly
across the room. One of the cardplayers takes a cigar from it as it rolls
by.
CARDPLAYER
It seems we've been dealt a bad hand this time.
CUT TO:
Cal and Lovejoy are walking aft with a purposeful stride. They pass CHIEF
BAKER JOHGHIN, who is working up a sweat tossing deck chairs over the rail.
After they go by, Joughin takes a break and pulls a bottle of scotch from a
pocket, opening it. He drains it, and tosses it over the side too, then
stands there a little unteadily.
CUT TO:
TRACKING WITH JACK as he bangs through the doors to the foyer and sprints
down the stairs. He sees her coming into A-deck foyer, running toward him,
Cal's long coat flying out behind her as she runs.
They meet at the bottom of the stairs, and collide in an embrace.
JACK
Rose, Rose, you're so stupid, you're such an idiot--
And all the while he's kissing her and holding her as tight as he can.
ROSE
You jump, I jump, right?
JACK
Right.
Hockley comes in and runs to the railing. Looking down he sees them locked
in their embrace. Lovejoy comes up behind Cal and puts a restraining HAND
on him, but Cal whips around, grabbing the pistol from Lovejoy's waistband
in one cobra-fast move.
He RUNS along the rail and down the stairs. As he reaches the landing above
them he raises the gun. SCREAMING in rage, he FIRES.
The carved cherub at the foot of the center railing EXPLODES. Jack pulls
Rose toward the stairs going down to the next deck. Cal fires again,
running down the steps toward them. A bullet blows a divet out of the oak
panelling behind Jack's head as he pulls Rose down the next flight of
stairs.
Hockley steps on the skittering head of the cherub statue and goes
sprawling. The gun clatters across the marble floor. He gets up, and
reeling drunkenly goes over to retrieve it.
CUT TO:
The bottom of the grand staircase is flooded several feet deep. Jack and
Rose come down the stairs two at a time and run straight into the water,
fording across the room to where the floor slopes up, until they reach dry
footing at the entrance to the dining saloon.
STEADICAM WITH HOCKLEY as he reels down the stairs in time to see Jack and
Rose splashing through the water toward the dining saloon. He FIRES twice.
Big gouts of spray near them, but he's not a great shot.
The water boils up around his feet and he retreast up the stairs a couple
of steps. Around him the woodward groans and creaks.
CAL
(calling to them)
Enjoy your time together!!
Lovejoy arrives next to him. Cal suddenly remembers something and starts to
laugh.
LOVEJOY
What could possible be funny?
CAL
I put the diamond in my coat pocket. And I put my coat... on her.
He turns to Lovejoy with a sickly expression, his eyes glittering.
CAL
I give it to you... if you can get it.
He hands Lovejoy the pistol and goes back up the stairs. Lovejoy thinks
about it... then slogs into the water. The icewater is up to his waist as
he crosses the pool into the dining saloon.
CUT TO:
Lovejoy moves among the tables and ornate columns, searching...
listening... his eyes tracking rapidly. It is a sea of tables, and they
could be anywhere. A silver serving tolley rolls downhill, bumping into
tables and pillars.
He glances behind him. The water is following him into the room, advancing
in a hundred foot wide tide. The reception room is now a roiling lake, and
the grand staircase is submerged past the first landing. Monstrous groans
echo through the ship.
ON JACK AND ROSE, crouched behind a table, somewhere in the middle. They
see the water advancing toward them, swirling over the floor. They crawl
ahead of it to the next row of tables.
JACK
(whispering)
Stay here.
He moves off as--
Lovejoy moves over one row and looks along the tables. Nothing.
The ship GROANS and CREAKS. He moves another row.
ANGLE ON A METAL CART... five feet tall and full of stacks of china dishes.
It starts to roll down the aisle between tables.
ON ROSE as the cart rolls toward her. It hits a table and the stacks of
dishes topple out, EXPLODING across the floor and showering her.
She scrambles out of the way and--
Lovejoy spins, seeing her. He moves rapidly toward her, keeping the gun
aimed--
That's when Jack tackles him from the side. They slam together into a
table, crashing over it, and toppling to the floor. They land in the water
which is flowing rapidly between the tables.
Jack and Lovejoy grapple in the icy water. Jack jams his knee down on
Lovejoy's hand, breaking his grip on the pistol, and kicks it away. Lovejoy
scrmbles up and lunges at him, but Jack GUTPUCHES him right in the solar
plexus, doubling him over.
JACK
Compliments of the Chippewa Falls Dawsons.
He grabs Lovejoy and slams him into an ornate columb. Lovejoy drops to the
floor with a splas, stunned.
JACK
Let's go.
Jack and Rose run aft... uphill... entering the galley. Behind them the
tables have become islands in a lake... and the far end of the room is
flooded up to the ceiling.
Lovejoy gets up and looks around for his gun. He pulls it up out of the
water and wades after them.
CUT TO:
They run throught the galley and Rose spots the stairs. She starts up and
Jack grabs her hand. He leads her DOWN.
They crouch together on the landing as Lovejoy runs to the stairs. Assuming
they have gone up (who wouldn't?) he clombs up them two at a time.
They wait for the footstep to recede. A long CREAKING GROAN. Then they hear
it... a CRYING CHILD. Below them. They go down a frew steps to looks along
the next deck.
CUT TO:
The corridor is awash, about a foot deep. Standing against the wall, about
50 feet away, is a little BOY, aobut 3. The water swirls around his legs
and he is wailing.
ROSE
We can't leave him.
Jack nods and they leave the promise of escape up the stairwell to run to
the child. Jack scoops up the kid and they run back to the stairs but--
A torrent of water comes pouring down the stairs like rapids. In seconds it
is too powerful for them to go against.
JACK
Come on.
Charging the other way down the flooding corridor, they blast up spray with
each footstep. At the end of the hall are heavy double doors. As Jack
approaches them he sees water spraying through the gap between the doors
right up to the ceiling. The doors groan and start to crack under the tons
of pressure.
JACK
Back! Go back!!
Rose pivots and runs back the way they came, taking a turn into a
cross-corridor. A MAN is coming the other way. He sees the boy in Jack's
arms and cries out, grabbing him away from Jack. Starts cursing him in
Russian. He runs on with the boy--
ROSE
No! Not that way! Come back!
228 DOUBLE DOORS BLAST OPEN. A wall of water thunders into the corridor.
The father and child DISAPPEAR instantly.
Jack and Rose run as a wave blasts around the corner, foaming from floor to
ceiling. It gains on them like a locomotive. They make it to a stairway
going up.
CUT TO:
Jack and Rose pound up the steps as white water swirls up behind them. PULL
BACK to reveal that a steel gate blocks the top of the stairs. Jack SLAMS
against the fate, gripping the bars.
A terrified steward standing guard on the landing above turns to run at the
sight of the water thundering up the stairs.
JACK
Wait! Wait! Help us! Unlock the gate.
The steward runs on. The water wells up around Jack and Rose, pouring
through the gate and slamming them against it. In seconds it is up to their
waist.
ROSE
Help us! Please!
The steward stops and looks back. He sees Jack and Rose at the gate, their
arms raching through... sees the water POURING through the gate onto the
landing.
STEWARD
Fucking 'ell!
He runs back, slogging against the curretn. He pulls a key ring from his
belt and struggles to unlock the padlock as the water fountains up around
them.
The lights short out and the landing is plunged into darkness.
The water rises over the lock and he's doing it by feel.
JACK
Come on! Come on!
Jack and Rose are right up against the ceiling...
Suddenly the gate gives and SWINGS OPEN. They are pushing through by the
force of the water. They make it to stairs on the other side of the landing
and follow the steward up to the next deck.
CUT TO:
Jack and Rose run up seemingly endless stairs as the ship groans and
torgues around them.
CUT TO:
Thomas Andrews stands in front of the fireplace, staring at the large
painting above the mantle. The fire is still going in the fireplace.
The room is empty except for Andrews. An ashtray falls off the table.
Behind him Jack and Rose run into the room, out of breath and soaked. They
run through, toward the aft revolving door... then Rose recognizes him. She
sees that his lifebelt is off, lying on a table.
ROSE
Won't you even make a try for it, Mr. Andrews?
ANDREWS
(a tear rolls down his cheek)
I'm sorry that I didn't build you a stronger ship, young Rose.
JACK
(to her)
It's going fast... we've got to keep moving.
Andrews picks up his lifebelt and hands it to her.
ANDREWS
Good luck to you, Rose.
ROSE
(hugging him)
And to you, Mr. Andrews.
Jack pulls her away and they run through the revolving door.
CUT TO:
Water raors through the doors and windows, cascading down the stairs like a
rapids. John Jacob Astor is swept down the marble steps to A-Deck, which is
already flooded... a roiling vortex. He grabs the headless cherub at the
bottom of the staircase and wraps his arms around it.
Astor looks up in time to see the 30 foot glass dome overhead EXPLOSE
INWARD with the wave of water washing over it. A Niagara of sea water
thunders down into the room, blasting through the first class opulence. IT
is the Armageddon of elegance.
CUT TO:
254 OMITTED
The flooding is horrific. Walls and doors are splintered like kindling.
Water roars down corridors with pile-driver force.
The CARTMELL FAMILY is at the top of a stairwell, jammed against a locked
gate like Jack and Rose were. Water boils up the stairwell behind them.
Bert Cartmell shakes the gate futilely, shouting for help. Little Cora
wails as the water boils up around them all.
CUT TO:
As the ship tilts further everything not bolted down inside shifts.
263 CUPBOARDS burst open in the pantry showering the floor with tons of
china. A PIANO slides across the floor, crashing into a wall. FURNITURE
tumbles across the Smoking Room floor.
264 ON THE A-DECK PROMENADE passengers lose their grip and slide down the
wooden deck like a bobsled run, hundreds of feet before they hit the water.
TRUDY BOLT, Rose's maid, slips as she struggles along the railing and
slides away screaming.
265 AT THE STERN the propellers are 100 feet out of the water and rising.
Panicking people leap from the poop deck rail, fall screaming and hit the
water like mortar rounds. A man falls from the poop deck, hitting the
bronze hub of the starboard propeller with a sickening smack.
266 SWIMMERS LOOK UP and see the stern towering over them like a monolith,
the propellers rising against the stars. 110 feet. 120.
267 AT THE STERN RAIL a man jumps. IN HIS POV we fall seemingly forever,
right past one of the giant screws. The water rushes up--
CUT TO:
In darkness Chief Engineer Bell hangs onto a pipe at the master braker
panel. Around him men climb through tilted cyclopean mahcines with electric
hand-torches. It is a black hell of breaking pipes, spraying water, and
groaning machinery threatening to tear right out of its bedplates.
Water sprays down, hitting the breaker panel, but Bell will not leave his
post. CLUNK. The breakers kick. He slams them in again and-- WHOOM! a blast
of light! Something melts and arcing fills the engine room with nightmarish
light--
CUT TO:
It is a thundering black hell. Men scream as monstrous machinery comes
apart around them, steel frames twisting like taffy. Their torches
illuminate the roaring, foaming demon of water as it races at the through
the manchines. Trying to climb they are overtaken in seconds.
CUT TO:
EXTREME CLOSEUP of Rose's ancient, wrinkled face. Present day.
OLD ROSE
Fifteen hundred people went into the sea when Titanic sank from under us.
There were twenty boats floating nearby and only one came back. One. Six
were saved from the water, myself included. Six out of fifteen hundred.
As she speaks THE CAMERA TRACKS slowly across the faces of Lizzy and the
salvage crew on KELDYSH. Lovett, Bodine, Buell, the others... the reality
of what happened here 84 years before has hit them like never before. With
her story Rose has put them on Titanic in its final hours, and or the first
time, they do feel like graverobbers.
Lovett, for the first time, has even forgotten to ask about the diamond.
OLD ROSE
Afterward, the seven hundred people in the boats had nothing to do but
waith... wait to die, wait to live, wait for an absolution which would
never come.
DISSOLVE TO:
Old Rose sits with the group in the Imaging Shack, lit by the blue glow of
the screens. She holds the haircomb with the jade butterfly on the handle
in her gnarled hands.
BODINE
We never found anything on Jack. There's no record of him at all.
OLD ROSE
No, there wouldn't be, would there? And I've never spoken of him until now,
not to anyone.
(to Lizzy)
Not even your grandfather. A woman's heart is a deep ocean of secrets. But
now you all know there was a man named Jack Dawson, and that he saved me,
in every way that a person can be saved.
(closing her eyes)
I don't even have a picture of him. He exists now only in my memory.
CUT TO:
304 OMITTED
A GRACEFUL PAN across Rose's shelf of carefully arranged pictures:
Rose as a young actress in California, radiant... a theatrically lit studio
publicity shot... Rose and her husband, with their two children... Rose
with her son at his college graduation... Rose with her children and
grandchildren at her 70th birthday. A collage of images of a life lived
well.
THE PAN STOPS on an image filling frame. Rose, circa 1920. She is at the
beach, sitting on a horse at the surfline. The Santa Monica pier, with its
rollercoaster is behind her. She is grinning, full of life.
We PAN OFF the last picture to Rose herself, warm in her bunk. A profile
shot. She is very still. She could be sleeping, or maybe something else.
CUT TO:
BLACKNESS
310 THE WRECK OF TITANIC looms like a ghost out of the dark. It is lit by a
kind of moonlight, a light of the mind. We pass over the endless forecastle
deck to the superstructure, moving faster than subs can move... almost like
we are flying.
WE GO INSIDE, and the echoing sound of distant waltz music is heard. The
rust fades away from the walls of the dark corridor and it is
transformed... WE EMERGE onto the grand staircase, lit by glowing
chandelier. The music is vibrant now, and the room is populated by men in
tie and tails, women in gowns. It is exquisitely beautiful.
IN POV we sweep down the staircase. The crowd of beautiful gentlmen and
ladies turn as we descend toward them. At the bottom a man stands with his
back to us... he turns and it is Jack. Smiling he holds his hand out toward
us.
IN A SIDE ANGLE Rose goes into his arms, a girl of 17. The passengers,
officers and crew of the RMS Titanic smile and applaud in the utter silence
of the abyss.
FADE OUT
THE END
Titanic
Writers : James Cameron
Genres : DramaRomance
User Comments
Back to IMSDb