
      A Newcomer male runs desperately through the branches and 
      brambles of this hillside area. His numbered prison denims 
      and panting breath tell us the distant BARKING DOGS we hear 
      are not from the pound.

      The Newcomer, whom we will come to know as JAY WALKER, 
      hides behind a tree. Using a stone, he begins pounding on a 
      beeping, blinking, shackle-like bracelet, all the while 
      taking note of the ever approaching...

      BARKING DOGS

      Tugging violently at their leashes as the search party 
      moves through the shadowed forest. The search party leader 
      holds a small electronic rod which has blinking lights and 
      similar beeps to the escapees wrist shackle. The 
      directional finding rod beeps grow in volume as it is 
      pointed in a certain direction.

      The leader smiles and they head off in pursuit.

      FLASHLIGHT BEAMS

      cut through the darkness; the rod's increasing beeps 
      telling us the search party is upon their prey. But it is 
      only disappointment they find when they discover the 
        escapee-less wrist shackle behind the tree.

                                  LEADER (RE: SHACKLE)
                    Told you these were junk. The dogs are 
                    best.

      With a smile the leader holds the shackle so the dogs can 
      get the scent. He unleashes the salivating team and the 
      hunt continues.

      JAY WALKER

      reaches a dirt road. He looks desperately toward the road 
      obviously expecting someone and disappointed that they are 
      not there.                                  JAY
                    {Dammit!}

      The barking increases in volume.

                                  JAY
                    {Come on -- come on -- come on}

      Just then headlights of an old ford round the corner. As 
      Jay rushes out toward the oncoming car screeches to a halt, 
      we see him slip in a MUDDY PATCH. His boots and backside 
      are covered with mud. Just then the search dogs exit the 
      woods.

      Jay flings open the door. The Newcomer driver, BILL 
      MEELATOR, nervously at the wheel.

                                  BILL
                    Got hung up.

      Jay piles in.

                                  JAY
                    Just drive, dammit, drive.

      The search team clears the trees and lets go with a volley 
      of gunfire as the Ford squeals away to safety.


      Buck, who appears to be loitering, looks around and then 
      walks up the front steps of an old building with Tenctonese 
      writing on the front of it. Buck knocks on the door. It is 
      opened by an elderly Newcomer. (Production note: shot from 
      behind we won't see his face.) We will come to know him as 
      BALBALBUT.

                                  BALBALBUT (O.S.)
                    {You have returned}

                                  BUCK
                    {For today and for a thousand days to 

