
      BILL HARKEN, a cup of coffee in his hand, emerges from his 
      apartment building on Third Avenue (one of those dorm-like hi-
      rises in the so-called  Jello Shot District. ) He s a burly, 
      imposing, former frat-boy with a temper that he struggles to 
      control.  

                                  ROSEN (V.O.)
                    Others can tap into our brain s most 
                    ancient structures, drawing on primal 
                    instincts and responses, turning them 
                    on and off at will...

      He arrives at his car, an American-made sedan, the kind a cop 
      would drive. In a typical, New York City move, drivers in 
      front and behind him have wedged him in, inches of clearance 
      at each bumper.  Harken grimaces.   


                                  ROSEN (V.O.)
                    ... but this too comes at a price.  
                    Some of our neural responses are out 
                    of our control for good reason. 

      Harken throws the car in reverse and mashes fenders with the 
      guy behind him.  He steams for a moment, curses.  Then gets 
      out of his sedan and marches over to the offending car and...  

      JAMS HIS THUMB INTO THE FRONT TIRE, AMAZINGLY PUNCTURING IT.  

      Air hisses out of the tire, leaving us to wonder where a man 
      like Bill Harken might have developed the strength to do such 
      a thing.  He gets back in his car and drives away.  

                                  ROSEN (V.O.)
                    Still others have developed skills 
                    that give them control over the minds 
                    of others.  
































































































































































































































































































          SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              6.





      An anonymous office complex in Rockland County, thirty miles 
      north of New York City, on the Jersey side.  

                                  ROSEN (V.O.)
                    My name is Dr. Leigh Rosen, and it is 
                    my mandate to find these people, to 
                    help them and train them.  We work for 
                    the United States Government, under 
                    the auspices of the National Security 
                    Agency. Our existence is classified... 
                    or should I say, was.   

      Across the street is a Starbucks, a Chinese Restaurant and a 
      24 Hour gym.  Whatever visions you had of hi-tech 
        headquarters or secret lairs beneath the subway system - 
      forget it.  Section 8 rents office space like the rest of 
      America.  
























































































































































































































































































































































          SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              7.





      Nina and Gary make for an unlikely pair as they arrive at the 
      Federal Courthouse.  Gary is taking note of everything around 
      them, collating it all in that magnificent brain and spitting 
      it back out.  They talk over each other...
                        GARYNINA
      Less than thirty percent of Fascinating, Gary.  I never 
      the building still contains knew that.  Please don t 
        metal-sheath wiring.  More stop. 
      than sixty eight percent 
      contains mineral-insulated 
      cable allowing the maximum 
      current flow according to the 
      electrical safety code...    


      They go inside the building.



      An aerial shot closes in on the rooftop of a century-old 
      Savings and Loan.  A lone figure stands near the ledge.  It s 
      Rosen.  He s gazing out across the city, mentally working 
      through the details of some conundrum. 

      The door to a nearby stairwell opens.  Nina and Gary walk out 
      onto the roof, followed a moment later by Rachel and Harken. 

                                  HARKEN
                    We re meeting on top of buildings now? 

                                  NINA
                    Nice view.  





















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              18.



                                  HARKEN
                    Thirty dollars for parking. I m in a 
                    red zone.  I m probably getting towed.  

      Rosen squints off into the hazy distance.  Several blocks 
      away is the Courthouse.

                                  ROSEN
                    So he would have been standing right 
                    about here.  Is that right, Gary?

      Gary moves next to Rosen, then points to a spot several feet 
      to the left.  

                                  GARY
                    No, here. 

                                  ROSEN
                    Very well, the shooter was standing 
                    here when he took the shot.  

                                  HARKEN
                    That killed the witness in the Sanchez 
                    case?  He would have to put that slug 
                    through three feet of masonry and five 
                    interior walls.   

                                  ROSEN
                    Not if the bullet entered the 
                      courthouse through an air vent as Gary 
                    has suggested.  

      Rosen nods to Gary.  

                                  GARY
                    I saw an abrasion.  In the air vent  
                    And I followed it.    

      The rest of the team is confused.  

      And now we go into-- A VISUAL RECREATION OF THE SHOT.


      THE CAMERA FLIES off the building following the trajectory of 
      the imaginary bullet as it hurtles towards a vent in the side 
      of the courthouse...

                                  ROSEN (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    The shooter fired a single round which 
                    travelled in through an exterior 
                    manifold.

      The bullet POV enters the intake housing where it makes its 
      way through the ventilation system.  































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              19.



                                  ROSEN
                    ...along the ventilation shaft, and 
                    into the deposition room, where it 
                    caromed off the baffle of the vent, 
                    striking the victim in the head.

      It hits the vent, scraping it, then caroms off and...

      PLOCK!  Hits the Witness  right between the eyes.

      BACK ON SCENE

      Gary is seeing the whole thing in his mind s eye. 

                                  GARY
                    The shot is possible with a margin of 
                    error less than .0007797 millimeters.

                                  HARKEN
                    And he factors in a bird farting a 
                    mile away.  It s crazy.  

      Rachel has been studying the ground near where they are 
      standing.  Wearing surgical gloves, she searches through the 
      gravel until she finds something...

                                  RACHEL
                            (whispering)
                    Maybe not so crazy.

      She holds up her discovery a dented brass object about two 
      inches long.  It s THE CASING. 

      From a SNIPER BULLET.  

                                                                  FADE TO BLACK:

                            END OF ACT ONE































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              20.



                     

                            ACT TWO

      FADE IN:



      Reveal Nina and Harken sitting in the SUV.  They watch Hicks 
      and the Manager talking through the storefront window.   
      Sitting behind them in the back seat is Gary.  He s scrolling 
      through the map application on his iPhone, studying the 
      surrounding streets in detail.

                                  HARKEN
                    What kind of deadly assassin works in 
                    a grocery store?  And why would he 
                    leave a bullet casing with his 
                      fingerprints at the scene of the 
                    crime? 

                                  NINA (CONT D)
                          (referring to Hicks)
                    He s kinda hot.

                                  HARKEN
                    Wow, no shame at all, huh? 

                                  NINA 
                    I like the blue collar thing.  It 
                    works for me.  

                                  HARKEN
                    I m sure it does.  

                                  GARY 
                    Here he comes.  

      Nina and Harken suddenly glance towards the supermarket and 
      see that Hicks is coming towards them, head down, hands in 
      pockets -- a portrait of defeat.  

      There s a moment of tension as he walks right past them.

                                  GARY
                    He s walking south.

                                  HARKEN
                    Great, thanks.    



































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              26.



                                  GARY
                    His apartment is eight blocks South.  
                    He will be there in fourteen minutes 
                    if that s where he s going.    

      Harken suddenly realizes...  

                                  HARKEN
                    His apartment.  Rachel...

      Nina suddenly catches on too.  She whips out her phone as 
      Harken starts the SUV.



      A row of run-down brownstones line the street, their brick 
      faces dotted with competing graffiti markings.  Hicks heads 
      up the stoop to his building s front door, just as Harken, 
      Nina and Gary pull up in the SUV.

                                  HARKEN
                    She s not trained for this.

                                  NINA
                    She can take care of herself if she 
                    needs to. You ve seen what she can do. 

                                  HARKEN
                    That s not the same as this.  We gotta 
                    get her out.  

      Harken bolts from the automobile just as Hicks goes inside.  

                                  NINA
                    STOP!

      Harken ignores her and charges towards the front door.  

                                  NINA
                          (to Gary)
                    Call Rosen! 

      She jumps out of the car and runs after Harken. 

      HOLD ON GARY --

      Alone in the car.  He looks around, not used to being 
      unsupervised.  He climbs in the front seat and starts playing 
      with the steering wheel, pretending to drive.  






















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              28.





      It s a quiet narrow street lined with shops.  Hicks suddenly 
      comes barreling around the corner, running for his life.   

      He runs down a block when, suddenly...

      The SUV cuts in front of him and Harken springs out from the 
      driver s seat to block his path.

      Hicks doesn t break stride, just keeps running right at the 
      bigger man, then snatches up an empty beer bottle from the 
      gutter and throws it at Harken, but ten feet over his head.  

      The bottle hits the release on a fire escape ladder and just 
      as the two men are about to collide Hicks LEAPS up and  

      CLANG!

      The ladder slides down. 

      Hicks grabbing the bottom rung with perfect timing and 
      pulling himself UP AND OVER Harken, who flails beneath him.  

      He pushes off the top of Harken's head with one foot, then 
      swings up onto a narrow ledge, so thin that most would have 
      trouble standing.  He runs across it and around the corner of 
      the building, leaving a frustrated Harken in his dust.  

      NINA emerges from the opposite side of the SUV and picks up 
      the chase.  

      She realizes she s no match for Hicks in a footrace and tries 
      something else.  She grabs a jogger by his wrist...

                                  JOGGER
                    Hey!

                                  NINA
                    Follow me!

      And he does.  She continues down the street, tapping people 
      as she passes them.  She grabs onto the sleeve of a repairman 
      in a jumpsuit.

                                  NINA
                    This way!






























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              31.



      He yanks his arm away.

                                  REPAIRMAN
                    Get offa me!

      Nina grabs his hand and repeats her command.  This time he 
      does as he s told -- Nina s ability only works skin on skin.  

                                  NINA (CONT D)
                    Let s go, follow me! 

      Soon, she has a a motley assortment of businessmen, joggers, 
      and hot-dog vendors trailing behind, her own private team.  

      Nina speaks into a blue-tooth earpiece.

                                  NINA (CONT D)
                    Help me out, Gary.  He went down an 
                    alley on 15th.



      Nina stops at the entrance to the alley, she turns to her 
      followers, barks out orders.  

                                  NINA
                    You three, block this entrance.  Don t 
                    let anyone pass.  You, jogger guy, 
                    circle the block.  If you see someone 
                    running, you tackle them.   

      Everybody takes off, except for the jogger, the first guy 
      Nina touched. 






















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              32.


      He stumbles about in a daze, not sure where he is.  Nina s 
      alpha skill has severe limits, it wears off in minutes.  

                                  NINA (CONT D)
                          (to first guy)
                    Hey you.

      She grabs him, firmly.  Puts a hand on his chin to pull his 
      face closer.  

                                  NINA (CONT D)
                    Pay attention.  Circle the block.  
                    Tackle anyone running.

      Reprogrammed, he snaps back to attention and follows her 
      command.  



      Hicks bursts out into the street, Harken stumbling behind 
      him.  Cars block Hicks  path for a moment, giving Harken the 
      chance to catch up, but then...  



































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              34.



      THE JOGGER runs right at Harken and TACKLES HIM.

      Well, it s not much of a tackle.  He really bounces off 
      Harken s massive frame.  But it s enough of a distraction. 
      Hicks makes it through traffic.

      In moments, he s gone.  Harken curses into his cell-phone.

                                  HARKEN
                    He got away.



      It seems like Hicks has lost his pursuers. He slows to a 
      quick walk, trying not to draw attention.  But as he heads 
      towards the next intersection, he hears...


      A STRANGE LOW-PITCHED SOUND

      Almost imperceptible at first, it grows in strength.  Hicks 
      stumbles, his nervous system no longer obeying the signals 
      from his brain.  

      He collapses to his knees, shaking like an epileptic.  

      Reveal RACHEL at the end of the block.  Her mouth is barely 
      open, but her throat is vibrating, super low frequency waves 
      emanating out from her body.  

      As she gets closer to Hicks the sound increases in intensity 
      until he is literally paralyzed on the ground.  Rachel wills 
      the sound to stop, then leans over and whispers...

                                  RACHEL
                    I m sorry.  

      Hicks is unconscious.  The chase is over.  

                                                                            FADE TO:


      A SERIES OF YOU TUBE CLIPS

      These are home made clips of people performing feats of 
      agility, balance and aim.  A kid bounces a ping pong ball off 
      five surfaces and into a beer cup. A girl stacks fifty cups 
      in three seconds.   A guy tries to do a triple flip on his 
      motocross bike...



































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              35.



                                  ROSEN (V.O.)
                    For most of us, there is a gap between 
                    what we imagine ourselves doing in our 
                    mind s eye, and what our bodies can 
                    actually accomplish.

      ...and wipes out.  Badly.  We see a few more examples.  
      Michael Jordan showing incredible body control as he switches 
      hands midair and hits a reverse lay-up.  A group of kids 
      playing  parkour soccer  fire passes back and forth across 
      the rooftops of Mexico City. 

                                  ROSEN (O.S.)
                    But for the lucky few, the opposite is 
                    the case.  Any physical feat their 
                    mind can imagine, their body can 
                    achieve. The phenomenon is known as 
                       hyper-kinesis. 

      And finally, some footage that looks like something torn from 
      a soldier s web-blog, a bit of home video of a SNIPER UNIT 
      stationed in the foothills around Kabul.  A SNIPER lines up a 
      shot on a truck full of insurgents so far away you can barely 
      see it.    

                                  ROSEN (V.O.)
                    They have perfect balance...perfect 
                    aim. Perfect synchrony between thought 
                    and action.

      He squeezes off the shot and there is a sharp clang in the 
      distance as the bullet smacks off a highway sign and 
      ricochets into the truck.  A moment later the truck SWERVES 
      VIOLENTLY off the road, its driver now dead.  The sniper 
      turns to face us, smiling, his buddies patting him on the 
      back... We freeze frame on

      ...a younger CHRISTIAN HICKS.  

                                  ROSEN (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    Christian Hicks was born with it.  



      A typical, gung-ho, high school baseball game, but with the 
      razor sharp tension of a perfect game on the line.  
      Everything is shot handheld, the POV of a proud parent with a 
      handycam, filming from the stands.  

































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              36.



      One out in the ninth, and on the mound, an even younger 
      Christian Hicks throws yet another laser-guided pitch for a 
      strike.  The crowd goes wild, the magical feat just two 
      pitches away. 

                                  ROSEN (V.O.)
                      Hyperkinesis, like all alpha grade 
                    skills, confers extraordinary 
                      advantages...  

      Hicks winds up again and throws another fastball on the 
      outside corner, but this time the batter almost accidentally 
      gets wood on the ball, sending a slow dribbler down the first 
      base line.  

      Hicks springs off the mound and gathers the ball, but doesn't 
      have a clean throw to first base.  
 

      Instead, he laces the ball through the striding legs of the 
      runner and hits the corner of the base. 

      Miraculously, the ball bounces STRAIGHT UP and into the mitt 
      of the first baseman.  The crowd explodes.

                                  ROSEN (V.O.) (CONT D)
                      ...coupled with profound drawbacks.  



      Quinn heads for the subway, squinting through beer goggles to 
      make out the sign for the PATH train at the Columbus Circle 
      station, when suddenly...

      Someone grabs him.  And shoves him, right into the wall.  And 
      puts something up to his mouth, a plastic breathing mask.  
      Snaps the band around his head.  The fight drains out of 
      Quinn like air from a balloon, he just deflates, and now he s 
      being dragged away.  The whole confrontation has taken 
      seconds, and he s just gone, like he was never there. 



      Quinn suddenly comes to, slumped down on the sidewalk next to  
      the subway sign.  The same place he disappeared from.   It 
      takes his brain a moment to reboot, then he gets to his 
      feet..  He checks his watch. 

                                  QUINN
                    Damn it, missed the goddamn train. 

      It s like the whole attack never happened. 

                                                                            CUT TO:


                          END OF ACT THREE





























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              46.




                           ACT FOUR


      FADE IN:



      Rosen and Hicks walk past the reception area of the offices.   

                                  ROSEN
                    Each person on the team has some alpha 
                    skill.  Gary Bell, for example, is an 
                    autistic with a 3D mapping ability 
                    that would put a Satellite Array to 
                    shame.  Which presents its own 
                      challenges.















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              48.



                                  HICKS
                    I don t know what that means. 

                                  ROSEN
                    Or Bill Harken?  You met him on the 
                    street, I believe. 

      Hicks winces at the memory, his ribs are still throbbing in 
      pain. 

                                  ROSEN (CONT D)
                    Bill can tap into his "fight or 
                    flight" reflex, giving him 
                      extraordinary strength and resistance, 
                    for a brief period of time.  But when 
                    I first met him, he had no control of 
                    this ability...



      We see Harken at the front door of a quiet single family home 
      talking to a woman, his EX-WIFE, on the other side of a 
      screen door.  Though we don't hear the details, they appear 
      to be having a heated discussion.  Every time he raises his 
      voice, his wife flinches, the fear of Bill's temper never 
      that far from her mind.  

                                  ROSEN (V.O.)
                    Any loss of his temper ended with 
                    serious repercussions.  An unfortunate 
                    situation at his former job lost him 
                    his career, and eventually his family.  
                    But now, with medication and 
                      treatment, Bill can better control his 
                    brain's release of epinephrine and 
                      adrenaline.  


      The arguments cease as their daughter comes out to say good 
      night to her dad.  He gives her a hug and a smile.  

      Harken eyes his ex-wife.  It's a tenuous relationship, but 
      they're working on it.



      An exotic sports car pulls up to the building.  Nina gets out 
      of the drivers' seat and tosses her keys to the valet she 
      woke up next to.  She touches his arm as she passes.



      A cab pulls to a stop on the corner of 44th and Broadway.  
      Hicks steps out into the bustle of New York s Times Square.  
      As he looks up, he is startled to see...

      A huge billboard showing a model in designer jeans along with 
      fifteen foot letters saying, "SIX A.M."

      Two shoppers stroll past and we overhear one casually telling 
      the other--

                                    SHOPPER
                    Bancroft building...

        A businesswoman passing the other way, jabbers into a cell 
      phone.

                                    BUSINESSWOMAN
                    ...time to kill. Six AM...

      A passing bus has an ad on the side for a holiday movie, 
      "BANCROFT BUILDING TIME TO KILL."    

      A dogwalker's t-shirt says, "6 AM."  

      The crosswalk light flashes, "TIME TO KILL"  

      And now, as Hicks steps out into the busy intersection--

      THE CAMERA COMES UP BEHIND HIM and reveals the MONEY SHOT of 
      our episode --

      Because EVERY SINGLE WORD SPOKEN, WRITTEN, or DISPLAYED 
      anywhere in Hicks' field of vision says the exact same thing.  
      Repeating the same chilling message&

       TIME TO KILL. TIME TO KILL.  TIME TO KILL.   

      Hicks walks up to the Bancroft building itself and goes 
      inside.  



      Hicks emerges from a stairwell and walks out onto the roof of 
      the building.   


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              55.



      In a trance now, guided by instructions he is not even 
      consciously aware of, Hicks is not surprised to see someone 
      waiting on the roof for him.  

      It's MOREZ.   

      Besides his trademark suitcase, he also has a duffle bag 
      slung casually over one shoulder.  

                                  MOREZ
                    You're late.  

      Hicks follows him over to the building's edge as Morez looks 
      irritated by Hicks' tardiness.  Morez passes Hicks the duffle 
      bag.

                                  MOREZ
                    I called you four times.  Where were 
                    you?  

      Hicks doesn t answer.  He reaches into the duffle and pulls 
      out a brand new 30.06 SNIPER RIFLE...


                                  MOREZ
                    The people who employ me expect 
                    absolute punctuality.  That's what 
                    they pay for.  You don't jeopardize 
                    that.

      This is a man used to being in total control of events, and 
      the fact that he is even a minute behind has thrown him off.  

      Hicks racks the bolt on the rifle and slides a bullet into 
      the chamber.



      Nina and Harken pull to a stop in front of the Bancroft 
      Building.  Rachel is waiting for them.  

                                  RACHEL
                    He s on the roof.

                                  HARKEN
                          (to Rachel)
                    Stay here.  Watch the exits.

      Nina s cell phone rings.  She answers as she and Harken rush 
      for the entrance.































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              56.



                                  NINA
                          (into cell)
                    Were here.

      Nina and Harken head inside.



      Despite his condition, Hicks' unconscious mind knows how to 
      aim a rifle.  It's as ingrained in him as riding a bicycle.   

      As Hicks adjusts the scope on his gun as Morez takes him 
      through his motions.  

                                  MOREZ
                    This shot should be fairly simple for 
                    you. 
                          (beat)
                    Here is the target.

      Morez shows him a picture of the target -- Another Vietnamese 
      Man, thuggish-looking.  

      Morez indicates the skyline, where two distant office towers 
      are separated by less than a hundred yards of open space.   

                                  MOREZ (CONT D)
                    You'll have a three second window.  
                    That should give you ample 
                      opportunity.   Once he passes out of 
                    view the opportunity is gone.  Do not 
                    let that happen.



























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              57.



      Satisfied that everything is in place, Morez picks up his 
      BRIEFCASE and heads for the far side of the roof.  

      Morez pulls out binoculars and glances at his watch.  It's 
      6:10am.  And then we hear a distant sound rising over the din 
      of traffic far below.  It s the helicopter.



      The scope to his eye, Hicks aims his rifle at the dead space 
      between the towers.  



      We can hear the chopper getting steadily closer.  Hicks eases 
      his finger onto the trigger and starts to exhale. Then--

      The door to the roof bursts open.  

      NINA AND HARKEN come running out.  

      Nina sees Hicks immediately and starts running towards him.

      Harken spots Morez, his binoculars out, at the other end of 
      the roof.  He heads for him.  

                                  NINA
                    Stop!

      Hicks turns to look at Nina, racing towards him, but all he 
      can perceive is her saying--

                                  NINA (CONT D)
                    Time to kill!

      He puts the scope back up to his eye, then finds the target 
      in his cross-hairs.  

      THE HELICOPTER flies between the two buildings now, Non Doc 
      Minh clearly visible through the window.  

      Hicks is about to pull the trigger when a hand reaches out 
      and GRABS HIM.  It's Nina.  

      Hicks is compelled by a force he cannot control, but Nina s 
      Alpha skill combats that force.  There is literally a war 
      going on inside his head.  

                                  NINA (CONT D)
                    DON T DO IT.  Don t pull the trigger.     

      Hicks hesitates.  Then shoves her aside and aims his rifle at 
      the chopper.  

      Nina realizes Rosen was right.  There s only one way to stop 
      him.

      ON HICKS

      As his finger tenses on the trigger...

      NINA suddenly grabs him and KISSES HIM.  And she isn t shy 
      about it.  









































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              59.



      Hicks  response is primal and emotional.  His body relaxes, 
      the instructions from his parietal lobe temporarily 
        interrupted.  

      THE CHOPPER passes behind the second building, safely out of 
      range.


      MOREZ is shocked, unable to process that the shot didn't 
      happen.

      He turns his binoculars towards Hicks and sees Nina pulling 
      the gun away from him.  Morez is furious, but then something 
      suddenly blocks his frame and he lowers the binoculars to 
      see...

      HARKEN, angry and filled with adrenaline, rushing towards 
      him.  

      His frustration and rage stifled most of the time, Harken 
      finally has a chance to let loose.  He lifts Morez up off his 
      feet and hurls him backwards.  Too far, in fact.  Morez 
      tumbles over the edge of the roof.  Harken panics for a 
      moment, he didn t mean to... He races to the side and sees...

      A BALCONY, one floor below.  



      Morez just lays there, stunned for a moment, gasping for 
      breath.  Then he gathers himself and begins to crawl away, 
      grabbing his metal briefcase.  



      Hicks stands on the rooftop, Nina by his side, squeezing his 
      hands tightly.  

      The glassy look in his eye seems to be fading, the spell is 
      broken.   Still, he's disoriented.   No idea where he is or 
      how he got there.

      But something catches his eye.  Morez, heading into the 
      stairwell, Harken on his tail.

                                                                  FADE TO BLACK:

                         END OF ACT FIVE


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              60.



                           ACT SIX


      FADE IN:



      Morez pushes through the revolving doors at the entrance.  
      Rachel sees him, and wants to try to stop him, but there are 
      too many innocent people for her to scream.  Rachel tries to 
      block Morez s path but he shoves her aside and races past 
      her.

      Moments later, Harken comes through the door and sees Rachel 
      on the ground.  He stops and helps her to her feet.  Then 
      spots Morez disappearing down the block.  

      Harken barks into his cell phone.

                                  HARKEN
                    I lost him.



      At a full sprint, Morez pulls his cell phone from his jacket.  
      Speed dials a number--



      Hicks and Nina are on the edge of the roof.   Nina points to 
      Morez, escaping.  

                                  NINA
                    That s him.  He s the one who s been 
                    pulling your strings.  

      Hicks tracks Morez s path with the scope of his rifle.

                                  HICKS
                    Not anymore. 



      Morez hits redial on his phone, then glances at the screen.  
      It says,  NO SERVICE.  

      Just as it seems that Morez has made it around the corner and 
      safely out of range...



























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              61.





      Hicks exhales calmly and FIRES.  

      WE TRACK THE BULLET--

      As it explodes from the barrel and zips through the air.  



      The bullet CLANGS off a street sign, an echo of his earlier 
      shot --


      And disappears around the corner.



      We don't know for a moment if Hicks got Morez or not.  But 
      Hicks seems confident.  He lowers the sniper rifle and gives 
      Nina a look of grim satisfaction.   

                                  HICKS
                    It s done.



      An hour later, Agent Quinn pushes through a crush of 
      bystanders, then flashes his badge to a patrol officer to be 
      let inside the CRIME SCENE. 

      As he moves past a group of cops towards the BODY lying in 
      the street, Quinn is met by another AGENT. 

                                  AGENT ONE
                    Got confirmation. It s Morez.  

      Quinn bends down to inspect, sees the bullet hole in the 
      head.  

                                  AGENT ONE
                    Kinda strange.  Same way as that 
                    witness in the courthouse.  Bullet out 
                    of nowhere.

      Quinn nods, not quite getting it.  The pieces don t fit.  























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              62.



                                  AGENT ONE
                    You hear?  Sanchez took a plea. Once 
                    the other guy testified, they cut a 
                    deal to avoid the chair. Sometimes you 
                    get a happy ending, huh?  

      Quinn nods, then notices the cell phone in Morez s hand.  

      He slips on a plastic glove and delicately picks up the 
      phone.  The screen says,  LAST CALL DIALED.   Quinn considers 
      this, then hits  SEND.     

      We hear the familiar annoying RING TONE: it s coming from the 
      phone on Quinn s belt.

      A change comes over Quinn.  His eyes go glassy.  

      The other Agents leans over.

                                  AGENT ONE
                    And you said we d never catch him.  
                    Beer s on you tonight, Quinnie.

      Agent Quinn responds in a monotone.  

                                  QUINN
                    Beer s on me tonight. 

      Off Quinn s glazed look...



      Nina drives up in her car.  The familiar Valet is there.  He 
      takes her keys.  She gets out and eyes him.  His bare skin 
      passes close to hers...  But this time she resists.  She 
      heads inside alone.  



      It s dark out now.  Hicks walks out into the parking lot.  He 
      is a bit shaky, but no other side effects from the impromptu 
      brain surgery.  He waits on the sidewalk, and then is joined 
      by Rosen.  

                                  ROSEN
                    Need a lift?

                                  HICKS
                    No.  I called a cab.

      As they stand there together, Rosen nods towards the gym 
      across the street.  Despite the hour, it's brightly lit and 
      packed with people working out on treadmills and stair-
      masters. 


                                  ROSEN 
                    Look at them.  Marching away, hour 
                    after hour, day after day.  Some see a 
                    waste of consciousness. I see 
                    limitless potential.  

      Hicks nods, he understands Rosen s point.  

                                  ROSEN
                    There is so much I can do to help you, 
                      Christian.  And so much you can do to 
                    help us. 

                                  HICKS
                    I m flattered, Dr. Rosen.  And I m 
                    very grateful for everything you ve 
                    done.   But I ve worked for the 
                      government before.  Didn t turn out 
                    for me...

                                  ROSEN
                      Christian...


































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































        SECTION 8         "Pilot"         3/01/08              65.



                                  HICKS
                    Guess I m not big on authority.  Not 
                    much of a joiner.  

      Rosen nods, sympathetically.  

                                  ROSEN 
                    Of course.  I just thought it might be 
                    a good way to relieve your guilt.   To 
                    kill a man is a terrible burden. 

      Hicks looks surprised, not sure what Rosen s getting at.

                                  HICKS
                    I.. I didn t kill him.  I mean, I had 
                    no choice, you know that.  

                                  ROSEN
                    Yes, I know that...

      Rosen smiles at him, and now we see another side to the good 
      doctor -- a cold, calculating and absolutely ruthless side 
      that will not compromise when it comes to his mission.  

                                  ROSEN
                    ... and you know that.  But who else 
                    does?  And who would ever believe it? 

      The implications of what Rosen is saying wash over Hicks.  
      This was not an invitation.  

                                  ROSEN (CONT D)
                    Really, the best place for you now is 
                    with us.  Where I can protect you.  

      And with that, Rosen heads off towards his car, disappearing 
      into the darkness of the lot.  

      We hold on Hicks, staring after him, as we hear Rosen's voice 
      one last time, echoing through the darkness.

                                  ROSEN (CONT D)
                    Welcome to Section 8, Mr. Hicks.

                                                                          FADE OUT:


                              END OF SHOW