
  Down this wet and empty street.  An industrial area, after hours.  Complete
    stillness, except for a neon sign which blinks uncertainly over the doorway
  of some bar from which two lone figures emerge.


2 CLOSER   MOVING2

  With NICK PEROTTA, handsome, mid-thirties, jeans, leather jacket, boots, and
    a Brooklyn accent; and with DANNY YATES, same age, all-American good looks,
    courderoy jacket over a sweater.  Perotta's got a nervous edge that's been
  dulled a little by booze.  A car passes in b.g. with an adhesive sound
    against a glistening pavement.  Yates casually follows its progress, as:

                                              YATES
                        Keller's on edge like the rest
                        of us.

                                              PEROTTA
                        Yeah, well he lost it when I told him.
                                (he exhales an ironic laugh)
                        All we have to do is return it to
                          property.  They don't keep track.
                        They'll never know it was missing, and we
                        can all wipe the slate clean.  Who needs
                        that kind of pressure?

                                              YATES
                                        (overriding; firm)
                        I said, don't worry.  I'lll smooth things
                        over with Laine -- then we'll talk about
                        it.

    Perotta smiles and nods his appreciation.  Beat.  Yates buttons his jacket
  with the sudden realization:


                                              YATES
                        It's getting cold, huh?                                                                                            3



  Yates slips on a pair of leather gloves as they  move to Perotta's late model
    Mustang.  Perotta fishes out his keys, jingles them to isolate the right one.
  He opens the driver's door and gets inside.  Rolls down the window.

                                              YATES
                        You okay to drive?

                                              PEROTTA
                        I've driven worse.
                                    (then: nervous laugh)
                        Listen to me: some cop, huh?  So where'd
                        you park?

                                              YATES
                        Couple blocks down on South Street.

                                              PEROTTA
                        C'mon.  I'll give you a lift.

                                              YATES
                        Thanks, but I'm gonna walk.

                                              PEROTTA
                                            (nods)
                        Sure.  See you tomorrow.

                                              YATES
                                            (beat)
                        Yeah.  I'll see you.

  Yates takes another casual glance around   before we see him pull a .44
    Bulldog from the back of his waist band.  And as he raises the gun from
  behind his back:


3 PEROTTA'S POV3

  as Yates, neutral-faced, extends his arm and fires twice at point-blank.


4 LONG SHOT4

    Framing the execution, as Perotta falls hard into the car, out of sight
  behind the dash.  Yates arm remains extended, as the gunshots reverberate
    through the empty streets.                                                                                            4




5 REVERSE ANGLE5

  to reveal a seventeen year old girl crouched in the shadows across the
    street, behind a garbage can, still holding the crate of oranges she had been
    carrying.  Her name is LAURA and her expression tells us she's seen
    everything.


6 YATES6

  lowers the gun and stares down at Perotta's motionless body which is splayed
  at an odd angle in a growing puddle of blood.


7 LAURA7

    quietly sets down the crate.  She backs up slowly, inadvertently displacing
  the garbage can lid so that it SCRAPES the pavement, and:


8 YATES8

    reacts, wheeling around.  He scrutinizes the darkness for the sound's source,
  but sees nothing.  He cuts a diagonal across the street, moving toward the
  sound, and:


9 LAURA'S POV9

as Yates nears, sweeping the area.


10 CU   LAURA10

  trying to control her nervous breathing.  Moment of decision: there's no
    choice.  She bolts out from the shadows and takes off down the sidewalk, and:


11 YATES11

    empties his .44 at her running silhouette, until it disappears down an
    adjacent alley.  He takes off after her.



  Laura runs, pumping her legs and arms with everything she's got.  She glances
  back over her shoulder to find Yates a hundred yards behind her.  But the
    distance between them is decreasing.  Quickly.                                                                                            5





  Laura breaks out around the corner and tries to flag down a cab that has just
    passed.  Too late.  She stops in the middle of the street.  Left or right?
  With Yates crescendoing footsteps, she chooses to go right, in the direction
  of the cab.


14 CU LAURA   MOVING 14

  with her as she runs, and doesn't look back.  Her eyes tear with exhaustion
  and her face begins to show the ebb of adrenalin.  Twenty yards more, and she
    staggers, falling headlong onto the concrete.


15 LOW ANGLE   LAURA 15

  her head bowed, her body heaving for oxygen   as a pair of spit-polished
  shoes step INTO FRAME.  Laura looks up, startled:


16 ANOTHER ANGLE16

    a UNIFORMED COP regards her with a mixture of concern and confusion

                                              COP#1
                        You okay?

  Laura exhales her great relief.  He helps Laura to her feet.  She nods
    tentatively, still gasping, then looks back.


17 HER POV17

  no sign of Yates.  They are in the parking lot of a run down commercial
  corner consisting of a Laundromat, a hamburger shack, and a mini-market.  All
    closed.  A lone streetlamp casts an oblong circle of pale yellow light.


18 RESUME SCENE18

                                              COP#1
                        What the hell are you doing in this part
                        of town anyway?

  But Laura is strangely shy.  She regards the Cop in grateful silence, then
  looks away, as we:

                                                                          CUT TO:                                                                                            6




  The cars, mostly junkers, are jam-packed along the curb.  We find Yates as he
    jimmies open the driver's door of an old Chevy Nova with a piece of flat
  steel.  Then, from his coat pocket, he removes a wrinkled paper bag, which he
  tosses onto the passenger seat.  He closes the door   and CAMERA MOVES IN
    through the window, until we see the tip of the .44 Bulldog barrel peeking
  just over the lip of the bag.



    A modest two-family house in Forest Hills.  All's quiet.  At least on the
    outside.

                                    KELLER'S VOICE (OVER)
                        He was my partner eight years, you son-
                        of-a  

                                      DAVIS' VOICE (OVER)
                                          (overriding)
                        Hey.


  The flag waves at half-mast.  Over this:

                                        CATHY'S VOICE
                        Excuse me, I'm looking for Detective
                        Keller.


  Cathy slides out of a cab and, heels clacking on the pavement, crosses the
    sidewalk and enters her building.


  Laura looks out over the jewelled city, her hair blown by te cool night
    breeze.  As Cathy comes out from the living room...

                                              CATHY
                        Laura, I've --

  She stops with the realization that Laura can't hear her.  Then she
    approaches and watches Laura's tranquil observation for a moment -- before
  Laura senses Cathy's presence and turns towards her.  (NOTE:  Cathy
    enunciates carefully, but not condescendingly, to Laura.)

                                              CATHY
                        Are you cold?

  Laura shakes her head -- then holds up her hand, thumb and forefinger about
  an inch apart, to admit that on second thought, she is a little cold.  Cathy
    smiles.

                                              CATHY
                        Come inside.  I'd like to show you
                        something.

  Laura nods and follows Cathy inside.                                                                                            37



    A clear, late-autumn morning -- and the flag, still at half-mast.

                                                                  CUT TO:

53 A RASTAFARIAN53

  is hustled PAST CAMERA by a pair of UNIFORMS, and we are:


  Keller emerges from the house, and takes a hopeless look over his shoulder
  before walking off into the moonlit night.


  as Vincent hurtles through the tunnel, atop a subway car, and we:

                                                                  CUT TO:

81 OMITTED81


  Laura, Vincent, Cathy scene.  (Dialogue to follow)

                                                                    FADE OUT

                                            THE END