
Turning the sign in the door so that it reads "CLOSED," Lou hurries off down the street.





Lou approaches a row of waiting cabs. He peers into a couple of windows before finding
MAXIE, a woman cabbie. He passes her the message in the bottle.

                                LOU
                        (leaning toward her)
                    It's a special.                                                                                  7




The cab jumps away from the curb, and Lou watches it disappear into traffic.



Maxie's a pinball wizard behind the wheel, working her way through mid-town congestion...
Finally, she pulls the cab over beside an immigrant PRETZEL VENDOR, hands him the
bottle, and jockeys back into traffic. The vendor bends down behind his shiny metal cart and
opens a small sewer grate in the sidewalk. The bottle drops into the darkness...




                                          STARR (V.O.)
                              People enjoy having their beliefs
                              reinforced.



The sidewalk teems with people from every color and class, skimming shoulders, walking fast.
Over this, the WHITE NOISE of traffic sounds and people and rap music blasting. Frenetic
urban pulse. CAMERA FINDS Father as he emerges from the mass of people and MOVES
WITH HIM, an anachronism, awkward in this changed world. He tries to stop and get his
bearings, but the human stream jostles him forward, so forward he goes.




                                                                        DISSOLVE TO:



  Father pauses before the black wrought-iron gate and checks the address on the clipping. It's
  the same. Tucking the clipping into his coat pocket, he enters the gate and climbs the three
  stone steps. He presses the buzzer. No answer, so he reaches for the brass knocker&
  strangely, the door pushes open.





Vincent is walking alone, his head bowed, pensive and troubled. He turns into:



Cathy, in her windblown nightgown stares out over the city lights. A bona fide vision. She
senses something, glances over her shoulder.






                                                                                                ...
                                                                                                .                                                                                          18


HER POV - VINCENT


steps from the shadows and stands there. And Cathy is almost unsurprised. as:

                                        CATHY
                          Vincent...


She moves to him, embraces him. He does the same.

                                        CATHY
                          I could feel you were close.

But Vincent doesn't savor the moment, instead breaking away.
                                                            ,

                                        CATHY
                          Something's wrong, Vincent. What is it?



Vincent moves to the railing and scans the jeweled night. Cathy joins him.

                                        VINCENT
                          Father is here& in the city...


                                        CATHY
                                (stunned)
                          Where?


                                        VINCENT
                          I don't know... somewhere... I should
                          never have let him go.
                              (beat, then)
                          I need your help, Catherine... to find
                          him.

                                        CATHY
                          Of course I ll help

Vincent turns to face her.

                                        VINCENT
                          I know Father has not always been fair to
                          you... It was for my sake...

A moment of shared regret. Then:


                                        CATHY
                              (tenderly)
                          We need a place to start. What else can
                          you tell me?                                                                                          19



                                        VINCENT
                          It must have had to do with his life... before...


                                        CATHY
                          What do you know about it?

                                        VINCENT
                          Very little... almost nothing.
                                (beat)
                          He was a doctor.

                                        CATHY
                          Okay. How about a name. He has a name.
                          doesn't he?

                                        VINCENT
                          I've always called him Father.

    Cathy regards Vincent: this is gonna be a tough one. but she's determined.


                                        CATHY
                          He may not have a name in your world,
                          Vincent, but he's got one in mine.


                                                                                CUT TO:






                                            STARR'S VOICE
                              Classic robber baron. Helped finance both
                              sides in the Spanish- American War, went
                              through the depression untouched -



Cathy climbs out of a cab that has pulled up to the curb. And as she enters the building:



REVERSE ANGLE - CONNOR

watching her from the passenger window of a black Thunderbird parked across the street.


                                                                                      CUT TO:



as it crashes open, and Cathy is out of there. She sprints ten yards to the front of the building.
but is stopped by a blinding light:


THE THUNDERBIRD


has its brights on her, looming like a waiting predator. The engine kicks alive and Cathy
doubles back down the alley past the heavy steel door, moments before:


CONNOR




~                                                                                          46


emerges, and pursues:


CATHY

as she topples several garbage cans in her wake, but Connor has had backfield experience and
plows through them, scattering trash. The alley is blocked by a twelve-foot chain link fence...
and Cathy doesn't lose a step as she leaps for it but Connor grabs hold of her ankle. She glances
over her shoulder, and kicks at Connor, misses... and again, missing... but the third swipe
connects, and Connor drops to the ground. Cathy scrambles up and over, and is scarcely ten
yards down the adjoining alley, when she is pinned by light and:



HER POV - THE THUNDERBIRD

has sharked silently down this wider alley, cutting off her escape. The driver door opens,
and an ominous silhouette (SPANO) emerges.


RESUME CATHY


as she starts back for the fence, but:


CONNOR

is pointing a .38 Colt Python at her through the fence. And he doesn't look too happy.



                                                                                  CUT TO:


The Thunderbird parks at the curb. Connor gets out first, checks both ways for any activity.
Except for a stooped Transient sitting on a low brick wall obscured by shadow, no one is
around. Connor reaches in and pulls Cathy out while Spano circles around to them. They enter
the building.


CLOSER ANGLE - THE TRANSIENT

as he lifts his face and brushes the hood back: it's Vincent. And on his face -- illuminated by
shadow and pale yellow lamplight&


                                                                              FADE OUT.

                                  END OF ACT THREE                                                                                          47

                                    ACT FOUR


FADE IN:



Scowling -- the cool and charming veneer stripped away. He's a rat in a trap.


REVERSE ANGLE - CATHY


Staring straight back, not giving anything away.


BACK TO STARR

as a big hand ENTERS FRAME and clamps down on the top of his head. WIDEN TO SHOW
Starr being stuffed into one of the three police cruisers on the scene. The door is slammed shut,
and Cathy watches the cruiser -- klaxon flashing -- pun away from the curb. She hears the
SQUAWK of a POLICE RADIO, turns to see:



LT. STRACHER .


leaning into the car for the hand held microphone.

                                        STRACHER
                              (into hand held)
                          Starr's on his way in, yeah. But we got a
                          problem. The lady's gone. Margaret
                          Sinclair. Possible kidnap;


CATHY


smiles knowingly, as we:


                                                                                CUT TO:



    where we find Father, once again in his tweed suit, and Cathy.

                                                CATHY

                                  Well, goodbye.

                                                FATHER

                                  You've been better than a good friend

                                  to me, Catherine. I know what you've

                                  risked. For that, I'm grateful&

                                      (beat)

                                  Goodbye.


    He turns slowly and starts down the steps.

                                                CATHY
                                      (softly)
                                  Jacob. ...

                                      (then; louder)

                                  -- Father.


    Father is three steps below ground when he turns to face her.

                                                CATHY
                                  I don't know what to call you.                                                                                                54


    Father does not reply, but regards her expectantly, squinting against the sun. Cathy tries to

    find what she wants to say, how to say it... Finally:

                                              CATHY
                                I... just wanted you to know: I would never
                                hurt him.

                                              FATHER
                                  Vincent...

                                                CATHY
                                  I love him.

                                              FATHER

                                I know.

                                    (then)

                                But all you can bring him is

                                unhappiness.

                                                CATHY
                                  Why do you say that?

            Father stares at her with the sad knowledge:


                                              FATHER
                                    Because part of him... is a man.

            As he descends into his world, leaving Cathy in hers


                                                                                        CUT TO:




where Vincent and Cathy stand, illuminated by moonlight, at the gaping mouth of the huge
concrete tunnel. A wind engenders there, like a hot breath, blowing from depths of the earth. It
moves Cathy's hair and flattens her dress against her body.


                                        VINCENT
                          I think they were Father's happiest too.


                                        CATHY
                          How is he?

                                        VINCENT
                          Healing. Alone. Grateful.

                                        CATHY
                          They really loved each other.

                                        VINCENT
                          Yes...







                                                                                                ~                                                                                            60


                                          CATHY
                              It's so sad. To have had a beginning, and
                              an end... and all the time in the middle,
                              empty...

Beat as Vincent lowers his eyes. Then, wistfully:
                      .

                                            VINCENT
                              They had seven days, Catherine.

She regards him now, with all the poignancy of their impossible love. Vincent takes a step
back before he raises his eyes to her again.

                        . VINCENT
                      .It's getting cold. You should go.


                                             CATHY
                              Vincent...

But Vincent has already disappeared into the darkness -- as another earth-breath from the tunnel
blows across Cathy, leaving her alone and thoughtful, we:

                                                                                  FADE OUT.


                                          THE END



















~


"