
        Winter has Manhattan in its grasp. Dirty snow is piled up
        along the sidewalks, icicles hang from the bare branches of
        trees, cabs send up waves of slush as they move down the
        streets. The imagery should be cold and stark, not festive.


                                                                    CUT TO:



          The same candle, now in Catherine's hand.

                                        CATHY
                          Vincent, it's beautiful...

          The terrace windows are rimed with frost, and there's
          traces of old snow along the parapets. Both are warmly
          dressed against the winter chill.

                                        CATHY
                        When I was a little girl, I was
                        scared of the dark. My mother gave
                        me a candle to light at my bedside
                        when I went to sleep... just a
                          birthday candle, a tiny little
                        thing, but somehow it made it all
                        right. I've loved candles ever
                        since.

                                                  VINCENT
                        This is no ordinary candle,
                          Catherine. This is for winter
                        fest...

                                        CATHY
                          Kipper was going on about that
                        last week...

                                                                      (CONTINUED)



" ~                                                                                          4


      3CONTINUED:3

                                        VINCENT
                        It's a special time for us...
                        we have other celebrations, all
                        the holidays and traditions we
                        share with your world... but
                        winterfest is our own... a day
                        to remember our past, dream of
                        our future.
                                (touches her candle)
                        Each winter we send these candles
                        to our helpers in the world
                          above... without their light, our
                        world would be dark, our lives
                        cold without their warmth. The
                        candles are our way of saying that
                        they are a part of us...
                                (beat, tenderly)
                          Everyone... the whole community
                        ... is agreed. This year's winterfest will be
                        incomplete ... unless you are there.

            Catherine is deeply touched. For a moment she searches for the
          words to express how much she values this sign of acceptance
          from the world below, but no words are adequate. She smiles and
          looks down at the candle, obviously treasuring it and what it
          represents. Then she sets it aside and puts her arms around
          Vincent and her head against his chest, wordless and happy.



                                                                      DISSOLVE TO:

          SERIES OF SHOTS (MOS) - DAY

          as the tunnel children deliver the special candles to
          helpers all around the city.


    4a) BENNY the bicycle messenger has stopped on a busy street4
          corner. Eric hands him a candle, then whispers in his ear.
          Benny grins broadly, lifts Eric onto the bike behind him. The
          boy holds tight as they take off. The basket on Benny's bike
          is full of candles.


    5b) DR. PETER ALCOTT emerges through a set of swinging 5
          doors in surgeon's garb, and is momentarily startled to see
          Kipper waiting for him. But when the boy offers him a candle,
          Alcott smiles broadly.


    6c) Benny whizzes through traffic, Eric riding happily6
        behind him. The basket is only half-full now.                                                                                          5.


    7d) LOU THE-BARBER is sitting in his own barber chair 7
          reading the paper when the door bangs open and a breathless
          underground girl gives him a candle.


  8e) SEBASTIEN, an elderly (60-70) magician in tattered top hat8
        and faded tails, performs on a snowy street corner to a
        sparse crowd. Kipper dashes up, searches for the candle,
        can't find it. Sebastien pulls the candle out of the boy's
        ear, eliciting a huge grin.


  9f) Benny wheels up beside a cab stopped at a light, and Eric9
        taps on the window. The driver is a street-smart young
        woman. She rolls down the glass, takes the candle,
          exchanging high-fives with Benny.


  10g) Kipper rushes inside a butcher shop. Through the 10
        glass, we see him giving a candle to the butcher. He exits still
        clutching several candles.


  11h) Eric solemnly shakes hands with Benny on the11
        sidewalk, then turns and saunters down into a subway.

                                                                    DISSOLVE TO:

--
--
--
--
-
