
A FLY-OVER establishes Manhattan s tony Upper East Side. We 
hear a SNEEZE.


Sketchy. Feels like a bad part of town. Castle approaches the 
door. The manila evidence folder with the jewel photos under 
his arm. Castle presses the BUZZER. Beat. Then Castle looks *
up at a SECURITY CAM, waves.  


The door BUZZES. Castle takes a breath and enters.


Esposito and Ryan watch the GUESTS arrive, heading past 
PAPARAZZI. Esposito holds the sketch, checking it. 

ESPOSITO
These guys look guilty of tax 
evasion, not home invasion.

Ryan looks up and does a double take. 

RYAN
Well, uh, looks can be deceiving.

Esposito looks up as well. Their jaws drop. Think Sam Neill 
and Laura Dern seeing the Jurassic Park dinosaurs. But 
instead of dinosaurs, it s...Castle Ep 106 "Home Is Where The Heart Stops" Yellow Draft 1-7-09 45.


BECKETT stepping out of a town car. On Castle s arm, the two 
of them step into a salvo of flashbulbs. A fairy-tale moment. 
Beckett momentarily dazzled. They pass Ryan and Esposito...

RYAN (CONT D)
Nice dress.

ESPOSITO
Yeah, what there is of it.

Beckett the princess snaps back into cop mode.

BECKETT
I d let you borrow it Esposito, but 
you stretched out the last one.

Castle takes Beckett s hand at the threshold of the party.*


Esposito on the walkie as Ryan checks IDs and lists. 

ESPOSITO
No red flags yet. What s it like in 
there? Is it a buffet or passed  
hors d'oeuvres?


Beckett and Castle with Ryan and Esposito.

ESPOSITO
(into phone)
Yeah. Reynolds. Paul Reynolds. 

As he waits for information, Castle works it out.

CASTLE
It s perfect. He IDs the jewels and 
uses his girlfriend s research to 
build profiles of his victims.

Esposito steps back, phone to his ear.

ESPOSITO
Yahtzee. Paul Reynolds, AKA Chad *
Nellis. Formerly Jerry Calucci from 
Albany. He s served on check fraud, 
embezzlement, forgery, and grand 
larceny.


Unmarkeds SCREECH to a halt in front of the building. 
Esposito and Ryan exit their vehicle. As Esposito pulls his 
short-barreled shotgun out of the trunk and racks it....


Establishing. 

