
      The forth largest city in the U.S.  Otherwise know as Space
      City... H-Town... The most air-conditioned place on earth.

      FLYING IN from the Gulf of Mexico... the second-largest U.S.
      port... Drug trafficking, hurricanes, 100% humidity... Moving
      up Buffalo Bayou toward the magnificent skyline... Skirting
      past the glimmering lights to Briar Forest, one of the many
      neighborhoods nestled in this sprawling southern metropolis...  

      CHYRON: "A week ago."

      [VISUAL NOTE: Text in italics will be shot in documentary/
      Cin ma V rit  style.]


      An affluent mix of old and new just behind Memorial Park. 
      We ZERO IN on a house as a CAR pulls into the garage... 


      Annie arrives a step behind, searching FACES for her target. 
      People LAUGHING.  SNAPPING photos.  And below her feet--

        A "U"-SHAPED GLASS BRIDGE extending 70 feet out from the
      canyon rim, 4,000 feet above the canyon floor.  Annie braces
      herself, vertigo kicking in, as she walks out onto the bridge--
      the Bull, nowhere to be seen amongst the CROWD.  

      Annie eyes the bridge's railing.  And something clicks.  She 

                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        5.

      CONTINUED:

      scans the crowd.  Spots a BURLY BIKER carrying a MOTORCYCLE
      LOCK/CHAIN over his shoulder.  She flashes her BADGE--

                                      ANNIE
                    U.S. Marshal.  The chain.  Now.

      The biker opens the lock in a hurry, hands it over--

                                                                          INTERCUT WITH:

      ANNIE'S TEAM--

      JIMMY GODFREY (late-thirties; gritty but handsome; an East
      Texas kid who never grew up);  

      MARCO MARTINEZ (mid-thirties; loves to talk); and

      DAISY OGBAA (early-thirties; second-generation Nigerian-
      American; a woman of few words)

      --as they secure the highly-trafficked tourist area.  But
      mostly we're focused on--

      ANNIE

      Doing the impossible as she climbs over the glass railing,
      using the motorcycle chain as a sling.  Sucking in air as
      the chain gives-- then grabs-- suspending her mid-air.

      She pulls herself against the infrastructure.  Struggling to
      keep her eyes straight ahead-- 

      Where she spots her man hiding in a support beam.  They
      connect eyes, locking in on each other.  His look, one of
      utter shock.  No fucking way this bitch is still on me.  

      But oh yes, she most certainly is.  

      He shimmies further away from the side of the canyon, Annie
      moving after him-- forcing him to the far end of the bridge. 
      Nowhere to go but up.  And damn if that big boy doesn't drag
      himself all the way back up to the bridge...  

      Annie scrambles along the underside, watching his feet retreat
      along the glass floor above her.  Until he stops.  Pulls out
      his gun and aims it down at Annie through the glass, an easy
      target.  A half-beat from squeezing the trigger when Annie
      draws her own weapon and-- 

      BLAM-- fires first-- the bullet piercing the glass and
      catching the Bull in the leg-- downing him.

      Annie then watches in horror as that section of glass floor
      SPIDER-WEBS-- threatening to give way-- holding just long
      enough for Daisy and Macro to grab the Bull-- 

                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        6.

      CONTINUED:

      Then SHATTERS-- raining down on Annie in relentless knives
      of glass.  She blocks her face-- losing her balance--

      AND FALLS

      --Barely grabbing hold of the last beam by one hand, gravity
      fighting her grip.  She GASPS-- not wanting to die-- 

      AND HURLS HERSELF up onto the beam-- pure survival instinct. 
      When a hand reaches down.  It's Jimmy.  He helps her up to
      safety.  Then grins at the destruction, impressed--  

                                      JIMMY
                    Nice job, Boots.  

      A beat as she catches her breath.  Then smiles, a tiny bit
      prideful.  Just enough so we love her even more--  

                                      ANNIE
                    We got him, huh?

                                      JIMMY
                    Got him good.  

                                      ANNIE
                    Alrighty.  Let's get outta here.


      Annie, Jimmy and Luke pull up to Mason's apartment in an SUV
      outfitted by TOG (Tactical Operations Group, basically the
      domestic CIA).  Dashboard computer, gun locker, radios--

                                    LUKE
                    Where'd you get the ride?

                                      ANNIE
                          (smiles)
                    Seized from a crook doing 30 up in
                      Robertson.  

      They jump out of the car and gear up-- tactical pants over
      their jeans, vesting up in Kevlar, grabbing their AR-15s and
      pistols out of the the gun locker--

                                      ANNIE (CONT'D)
                    Alrighty.  Let's make this look good.


      Marco and Daisy finish gearing up by their Bronco in front
      of Mason's mother's house.  Marco fastens a piece of velcro-- 

                                      MARCO
                    Hey Daisy-- you remember what we did
                    before velcro?  I can't remember how
                    we kept things shut.  Zippers...
                      buttons... Snaps?  

                                      DAISY
                    You wanna keep talking?  Cause I got
                    all day.

                                      MARCO
                          (ha ha)
                    Let's go clean this house--


      Annie, Jimmy and Luke arrive at Mason's door.  Annie puts
      her ear up to it.  Listens.  Beat.  Beat.  She gives a thumbs-
      up.  Every fiber of their beings on high alert.  They pound--

                                      JIMMY
                    Open up!  Police!  Open up!

      They knock.  The door opens tentatively.  LAURA ROSS (23,
      blonde) peeks out in a "Waffle House" waitress uniform-- 



                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        13.

      CONTINUED:

                                      ANNIE
                    U.S. Marshals.  Is Mason Boyle home
                    with you?  

                                      LAURA ROSS
                    I already told them, he ain't here--  

                                      ANNIE
                    Need you to step aside.  Now--

      Luke watches Laura, as Annie and Jimmy charge inside--  


      Annie, Jimmy and Luke exit the apartment.  

                                      ANNIE
                    Let's set up on her 'round the clock. 
                    See if she leads us to Mason.

                                    LUKE
                    Or if Mason comes to her...?

                                      ANNIE
                    Oh, no.  Mason's done with her.

      WHOOSH --


      Rain.  A MOTHER searches frantically for her child.  Mason
      walks up to her with the little girl.

                                      LITTLE GIRL'S MOTHER
                    Oh my God--!  Sophie--!  

                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        18.

      CONTINUED:

      She falls on her knees.  Envelops her daughter in her arms. 
      Never gonna let go.  Then looks up at Mason.  Her hero.  

                                      LITTLE GIRL'S MOTHER (CONT'D)
                    Thank you. 

      Mason shields his face from the rain.

                                      MASON
                    Nice weather we're having.  Lemme
                    help ya to your car.

      The woman smiles and picks up her child.  Mason follows with
      her cart and umbrella, as they reach her station wagon...  

                                      MASON (CONT'D)
                    Got the keys?

      Mason holds out his hand.  The woman hesitates.  Mason picks
      up on it, gives an embarrassed laugh--

                                      MASON (CONT'D)
                    I'm sorry.  Here I am, a stranger,
                    askin' for your keys-- 

                                      LITTLE GIRL'S MOTHER
                    --No, I'm the one who's sorry.  You're
                    helping me out and... Here.

      She gives him the keys.  Mason unlocks the station wagon. 
      He opens the glove compartment and finds her registration.  

                                      MASON
                    Ruthven Street.  Nice neighborhood.  
                          (off her look)
                    Tell anyone 'bout me or your car and
                    I'll come lookin'.  Sayin' what
                    happens next just don't feel right
                    in front'a the little one.

      Mason smiles.  Then drives away.  PAN FROM the woman and her
      little girl... to an abandoned late-model Honda Accord, a
      "Waitresses Make Better Lovers" bumper sticker on it...


      Mason exits an "ice house" (a low-rent bar with a garage
      door opening to the outside), a self-satisfied grin on his
      face till he finds Laura Ross waiting for him in the shadows--

                                      MASON
                    Laura?  Hell you doin' here?

                                      LAURA ROSS
                    They're gonna find you pretty easy,
                    you keep comin' to the same places-- 

                                      MASON
                    --Who?  Who's gonna find me?

                                      LAURA ROSS
                          (Annie's CARD--)
                    Sayin' you broke into a house and
                    shot a family. 

                                      MASON
                          (reads it, pockets it--)
                    Marshals?  They find anything?

                                      LAURA ROSS
                    How could they, way you spic'n'spanned
                    the place before you left?  I didn't
                    know it was cause you were never
                    comin' back.

                                      MASON
                    Who told ya that?  Damn feds? 
                    Company's got me shacked up with the
                    rest of the crew near the job site.  

                                      LAURA ROSS
                    I don't get it, Mason.  I thought
                    you wanted to marry me.  You do this
                    just to hurt me?
                          (takes out her necklace--)
                    They even took my ring...

      Mason shakes his head, kicks some gravel... Time to confess:

                                      MASON
                    Those back taxes I told ya about...? 
                    Really it's money I took from a bank. 
                    They're gettin' back at me now. 
                    Tryin' to turn you against me...

      Mason stares at Laura.  Laura stares at Mason.  Finally:

                                      LAURA ROSS
                    You dumb sonovabitch.

                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        28.

      CONTINUED:

                                      MASON
                          (smiles)
                    C'mon.  Car's 'round back.  You and
                    me got weddin' bells to talk about...

      He puts his arm around her and leads her into the alley, his
      other hand reaching for the knife in his back pocket...


      Pete gets in his car parked in the truck stop parking lot,
      his nerves shot.  He glances in his rear-view mirror.  And
      there is Mason, staring at him from the back seat.  Before
      Pete can react, Mason has his knife at Pete's neck-- 


      Pete goes limp.  Mason picks up the fallen cell phone.  Puts
      it to his ear as he gets out of Pete's car, steps over to a
      '68 Dodge Charger, and gets inside...

                                      ANNIE (O.S.)
                    ... Mason?  Is that you?  


      Mason watches the Cowboy couple hop into their jacked-up
      F150 Turbodiesel.  He glances around, nervous, unsure...


      SAPD sets a perimeter around a '68 Dodge Charger as Annie,
      Jimmy and Luke arrive.  A San Antonio TFO approaches Annie--

                                    SAN ANTONIO TFO
                    You're gonna wanna see what's in the
                    trunk...


                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        34.

      CONTINUED:

      Annie and Jimmy share a glance.  CSIs step aside as they
      reach the open trunk.  Oh.  Fuck.  

      Laura Ross's body is inside.  

                                      JIMMY
                    Couldn't protect her from herself... 

                                    SAN ANTONIO TFO
                    Blonde female.  Approximately 25
                    years of age.  No ID-- 

                                      ANNIE
                    Her name's Laura Ross.  Please contact
                    her family in Houston.  
                          (then)
                    Let's find this sonovobitch--

      WHOOSH --


      Annie, Jimmy and Luke gear up in night vision goggles, Kevlar
      vests, and cold weather gear, as a Schweizer 300-C Texas
      Ranger helicopter equipped with high-powered spotlights and
      F.L.I.R. (Forward Looking Infrared Radar) arrives.  Annie,
      Jimmy and Luke climb into the helo--


      Annie, Jimmy and Luke fly through the night sky like a bat
      out of hell in the Schweizer 300-C.  Annie leans out the
      open door, in her fucking element as--

      ON THE GROUND BELOW-- Local and federal cops fan out into
      the forest with dogs, following deer trails and streams...

      WHOOSH --                                                                                        35.




      Mason is running through the woods, limping.  He hears the
      helicopter.  Looks over his shoulder and trips.  He scrambles
      to his feet.  Running for his life...


      The cowboy's truck comes to a checkpoint at the edge of town.

                                      STATE POLICE
                    Gonna need to see some ID.

      Cowboy and his girl hand their IDs to the cop, who's listening
      to the helicopter chase on his radio.  He waves them through.

                                      STATE POLICE (CONT'D)
                    Be safe now, ya hear?


      The cowboy's truck speeds down the open road.  Pulls over
      long enough for the driver to kick "Lizzy" to the shoulder.  

      Then the cowboy speeds away, removing his ten-gallon.  And
      as he does we MOVE IN TIGHT ON HIS FACE...  

      Revealing that it is not the cowboy driving.  Never was. 
      It's Mason.  Smiling that smile of his.

                                                                          CUT TO BLACK.

                                  END OF ACT THREE                                                                                        36.



                                        ACT FOUR

      OVER BLACK:

      The sound of a razor scraping skin...

      WHOOSH --


      A suburban house.  A car with a "Rio Grande Real Estate"
      logo on the side pulls up.  Jessie Lyn gets out and goes
      inside.  PULL BACK to reveal Annie, Jimmy and Luke watching
      from a rental car.  Luke looks at Jessie Lyn's DMV photo--

                                    LUKE
                    That's definitely her.  We gonna
                    jack her up?

                                      ANNIE
                    Can't do it here.  If Mason sees us
                    he'll sky up again...

      Annie pulls out her Blackberry.  Dials the "Rio Grande Real
      Estate" number on the side of the car.



                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        42.

      CONTINUED:

                                      ANNIE (CONT'D)
                    Hi, my name's Vivian Powers.  My
                    husband and I are moving to El Paso
                    and we'd like to look at houses...


      Parenting magazines, scissors and glue are strewn across the
      front seat of the rental car... as Annie and Jimmy walk up
      to a house for sale.  Annie hands Jimmy a wedding band.

                                      ANNIE
                    Here.  Will you marry me?

                                      JIMMY
                    I thought you'd never ask.  
                          (puts ring on, then:)
                    Where'd you come up with Vivian?  

                                      ANNIE
                    I dunno.  Just popped in my head. 

                                      JIMMY
                    Better than what you came up with
                    for me... 

      Annie gives him a look.  Knocks.  Jessie Lyn opens the door--

                                      JESSIE LYN
                    Hi, Vivian.  Hi, Dwayne.  Welcome to
                    El Paso.  

      Jimmy glances at Annie as they step inside...


      Annie and Jimmy gear up in tactical vests, helmets, and
      weapons behind the hotel.  Everyone else, including Luke, is
      in plain clothes.  An El Paso TFO reports to Annie-- 

                                    EL PASO TFO
                    Corners 1 through 4 are covered. 
                    Got a tight perimeter 'round the
                    hotel, all units in place.

                                      ANNIE
                    We have verification he's in his
                    room?

                                    EL PASO TFO
                    10-4.  Last 38 minutes.  No movement.

                                      ANNIE
                    How'd we do with the neighboring
                    rooms, Luke?

                                    LUKE
                    All adjacent rooms are clear.

                                      ANNIE
                          (to Jimmy)
                    Alrighty.  Let's make this look good.

      Annie and Jimmy enter the back stairwell...


      A TFO leads Annie and Jimmy toward a female hotel guest in a
      bathrobe.  Her hair is wet.

                                      WOMAN IN BATHROBE
                    I was in the shower-- I heard a loud
                    banging-- then he just walked in. 
                    He was going to take me hostage till
                    someone knocked on the door. 

                                      ANNIE
                    A U.S. Marshal?

                                      WOMAN IN BATHROBE
                          (nods)
                    He said there was a situation, and
                    that we had to evacuate the room.  

      Annie and Jimmy have heard enough.  Annie nods to the TFO
      from earlier--

                                      ANNIE
                    Keep Jessie Lyn detained.  I want
                    her phones monitored and someone on
                    her house 'round the clock.  Send a
                    marked unit to her daughter's school.  
                                      (MORE)

                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        46.

      CONTINUED:

                                      ANNIE (CONT'D)
                    Keep the perimeter covered and two
                    officers inside.

                                    SAN ANTONIO TFO
                    Yes, ma'am.


      The guards run out onto the street.  Mason's gone.  They fan
      out as we PAN UP to a security camera, taping it all...


      Sissy sees Mason running down the alley toward the passenger
      door.  He jumps in, shoves her into the driver's seat.

                                      MASON
                    Drive.

                                      SISSY
                    I don't know how to--  

                                      MASON
                    Drive.

      The look in his eyes, and Sissy does as she's told.  She
      lurches out of the alley, passing one of the security guards
      who's looking for Mason.

      SECURITY GUARD'S POV:  He sees Sissy driving.  No one in the
      passenger seat.  

      BACK INSIDE THE CAR:  Mason is lying on the floor.                                                                                        50.




      The same plate, as Sissy and Mason drive.  They're on the
      Cesar Chavez Border Highway on the banks of the Rio Grande.  

                                      MASON
                    Stop here.

      Sissy pulls over, stops the pick-up.  Mason gets out.  Scans
      the river.  The Bridge of the Americas to the east, The Good
      Neighbor Bridge to the west.  He reaches into the truck-bed. 
      Hands Sissy his guitar as she joins him...

                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        51.

      CONTINUED:

                                      MASON (CONT'D)
                    I just tuned it.

                                      SISSY
                    What, you're not taking me with you?

      Mason looks at his daughter, a flash of something almost
      resembling emotion.   

                                      MASON
                    I was gonna... Just too many damn
                    ways for you to get hurt.

      He slips into day-laborer coveralls and a gardening hat--  

                                      SISSY
                    Please-- I wanna go with you-- 

      She clings to him.  He has to pry her off--

                                      MASON
                    Sorry kid.  For everything.

      He looks at her, surprised by the genuine emotion he feels
      with this kid... Not quite sure what a father would do, he
      kisses her forehead.  Then walks away, blending in with the
      other day-laborers walking along the highway.  Sissy watches
      him go, tears streaking her cheeks...

                                                                          TIME CUT TO:

      Marshals surround the pick-up.  Annie swoops in, gun drawn. 
      Finds Sissy sitting behind the wheel.  She opens the glove
      box, finds the vehicle registration, name JOSE GONZALEZ--  

                                      ANNIE
                    Where did he go?  Sissy-- where is
                    he?

                                      SISSY
                    I-- I dunno-- okay?

      Annie holsters her gun.  Crouches down next to the girl.

                                      ANNIE
                    Listen, kiddo.  I know it might be
                    hard to believe, but one time I was
                    sitting exactly where you are... 

      Sissy locks eyes with Annie, instantly senses she's telling
      the truth...

                                      SISSY
                    'Kiddo.'  Is that what your father
                    called you?

                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        52.

      CONTINUED:

      Annie is surprised by Sissy's insight.  Till she remembers: 
      This is how she got her insight, too.

                                      ANNIE
                    Yes.  That's what he called me.

                                      SISSY
                    Before he left?

                                      ANNIE
                    Before he left.
                          (beat)
                    You're gonna be okay, you know that?

                                      SISSY
                    ... Like you?

                                      ANNIE
                    The one thing I found that makes me
                    feel better?  Doing what's right. 
                    No matter how hard it is.  Catching
                    the guys running away, even when you
                    feel like running away yourself.

                                      SISSY
                    I wanted to run away with him, but
                    he didn't want me.

      Annie flinches almost imperceptibly.  More in common with
      this little girl than even she had thought... Then:

                                      ANNIE
                    You think if I let your daddy get
                    away, he'll come back for you?

                                      SISSY
                          (yes)
                    Maybe...

                                      ANNIE
                    You gonna tell me which way he went
                    anyway?

      A long beat.  Sissy swats a tear away.  Then points.

                                      SISSY
                    That way.

                                      ANNIE
                    West?  To the Good Neighbor Bridge?

      Sissy nods.  Annie looks at her, then calls into her radio:




                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        53.

      CONTINUED:

                                      ANNIE (CONT'D)
                    He's going east.  To the Bridge of
                    the Americas...  
                          (re: the registration)
                    Possibly with I.D. for Jose Gonzalez.

      Annie stands, ready to go.  Looks at Sissy one last time.

                                      ANNIE (CONT'D)
                    I used to cover for my dad, too.

      They lock eyes for a moment.  Till Annie takes off running. 
      And as Sissy watches her go--


      A massive complex of four bridges with eight lanes for
      passenger vehicles, four lanes for commercial trucks, and
      two sidewalks for pedestrians.  1400 passenger cars and 40
      commercial vehicles cross this bridge.  Per hour.  

      Not to mention the thousands on foot.  The southbound traffic
      is backed up the I-110 and down Paisano Street, causing a
      dangerous mix of vehicular and foot traffic.  Idling semis,
      agriculture trucks, cattle trucks, pick-ups, day-laborers. 
      And now Mason's one of them, lost somewhere in the throng.

      Annie heads into the maze of vehicles and people.  A
      harrowing, nerve-wracking search for the bald man with the
      blond eyebrows amidst all that humanity...

      WHOOSH --

      Mason dodges, ducks and weaves between people, trucks and
      cars.  Yet somehow, he can see Annie getting closer.  He
      keeps catching glimpses of those damn boots...  

      He's got the border guards coming up in front of him, and
      the U.S. Marshals closing in behind.  He spots--

      A CONVOY OF CATTLE TRUCKS 

        Transporting bulls back to Mexico after a stateside rodeo. 
      Mason ducks his way toward them.  He gets to the last truck. 
      Throws open the latch in the back, hoping to flood the aisles
      between cars and trucks with stampeding bulls.  

      But they don't move.  Fuck.  

      He gets another idea.  Starts knocking on windows--

                                      MASON
                    Hey.  Gotta smoke?  Anyone spare a
                      cigarette?


                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        54.

      CONTINUED:

      Finally a grizzled old GAUCHO hands Mason a cigarette and a
      lighter.  Mason takes off with both...

                                      GAUCHO
                      Pendejo...

      Back to the cattle truck.  He reaches through the front slats
      of the trailer and lights the hay on fire.  The bulls freak
      the fuck out, exploding onto the bridge.  Mason runs to the
      three other trucks and does the same.  

      Fucking Pamplona on the B.O.T.A.

      ON ANNIE AND THE REST OF HER TEAM--

      As 60 angry bulls charge down every lane toward them.  It's
      all they can do to get out of the way, losing sight of Mason.  

      Annie manages to dive into the front opening of the enclosed
      pedestrian lane.  She hoists herself up on the inside of the
      cage canopy and spider-crawls her way forward over the throngs
      of terrified people.  She looks out--

      And there is Mason.  

      On the other side of the cage, crouched next to one of the
      cattle trucks.  He looks up.  And sees Annie.  And WHAM--

      Their two POVs collide. 

      Mason stares at her in disbelief.  Then hauls himself onto
      the TOP of the cage canopy and starts running for the border.

                                      ANNIE
                    Stop!  U.S. Marshals!

      SHOTS ring out.  Mexican Border Patrol is firing on Mason.  

                                      ANNIE (CONT'D)
                    Hold your fire!  No tire!

      Mason turns towards Annie.

                                      MASON
                          (fuck you)
                    I ain't going back.  

      And he means it-- 

      MASON JUMPS.  

      Down into the muddy, industrial waters of the Rio Grande.  

      Annie looks down through the grated bridge floor, watching
      the water carry Mason off.  Stuck above-- an excruciating 

                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        55.

      CONTINUED:

      reversal of the Glass Bridge chase with the Bull. 

      And damn if Annie doesn't do the same thing.  She finds a
      service access hatch, bolted shut with four large padlocks.  

                                      ANNIE
                    Stand back!  Everyone-- back!

      Pedestrians back away in terror as Annie fires at the locks,
      popping them open and-- 

      ANNIE JUMPS TOO.


      Annie's a good twenty yards behind Mason.  Using her best
      strokes to close the gap.  She pumps harder and harder as
      Mason swims frantically-- desperate to get to the Juarez
      side of the river.  But Annie reaches him and--

      They fight-- borne along by the current.  Mason gets in a
      solid punch and Annie goes under.  All is still for a moment
      as Mason looks around, thinking he might have won until--

      ANNIE POPS UP BEHIND HIM.  SLAMS his skull with the butt of
      her automatic.  Mason goes out cold.  Annie watches him float
      off, tempted to let the river do her job...

      But she gets him in a headlock and begins the arduous swim
      cross-current, back to the shores of the U.S.A.


      Annie drags Mason's limp body onto the concrete shoreline
      and cuffs him.  She stands back to catch her breath, as Mason
      comes to, sputtering water, realizing he's busted.   

                                      ANNIE
                    Glad we got to meet in person.  After
                    our phone call was cut short.  
                          (then)
                    Good-bye, Mason Boyle.

      Mason glares at Annie as Daisy, Marco and Luke take him
      away...  Jimmy joins Annie.

                                      JIMMY
                    Nice job, Boots.  

      Annie smiles that smile. 

                                      ANNIE
                    We got him, huh?



                                                                (CONTINUED)                                                                                        56.

      CONTINUED:

                                      JIMMY
                    Got him good.  

                                      ANNIE
                    Alrighty.  Let's get outta here.

      Annie and Jimmy walk off.  As they go, we see Annie stop. 
      Take off a boot, and pour water out of it.  

