
Alex reaches the OUTSIDE, just ahead of them, and we realize 
we re at the far end of the VEGAS strip, at least what s left 
of it.  This is the decrepit, ghost town version of its 
former glory, a war waged here.5.


Alex jumps into a MILITARY HUMMER and tears out... just as 
the poker players reach the street.  Alex guns it for them 
and WHAM! - clips Momma spinning her to the ground.  

The Soldier takes flight, as the Child moves like a bullet, 
leaping up, bounding from building to building.  

Wounded but not dead, MOMMA SLOWLY RISES TO HER FEET, staring 
after the fleeing vehicle.

From HIGH ABOVE, Alex races among the ruins.  And we see what 
Vegas looks like now...

 Grand MGM Mandalay, Palace, Caesar s containing strip, The
and the Wynn has been converted into a fortress, the iconic 
casino hotels now apartments housing tens of thousands of 
people.  Fifty-foot walls surround the area like a castle.  

It s lit up, a beacon, the surrounding landscape dark as the 
sun goes down.


Alex and Eli sit in back of a military HUMMER.  As they are 
driven down the strip we get to see VEGA as ALEX sees it...

Vega is much as we know it now: spotlessly maintained, 
bustling, energetic, vibrant and most of the iconic symbols 
we know and love are there, but ALL uniquely changed and 
modified for permanent housing and to defend against the 
constant threat of angel attacks. 

It is more densely built-up than Hong Kong, but better 
organized.  There are modern factories, open-air markets, and 
intense human productivity.  

Giant VIDEO SCREENS announce a citywide EVENT -- the VEGA 
JUBILEE, an annual celebration of humanity coming back from 
the brink of extinction to fight against the angels.

At various checkpoints, there are more high tech TSA body 
scanners, manned by soldiers in BLACK UNIFORMS.  Life in Vega 
relies on absolute vigilance and rule of law, but there are 
those that disagree...     9.


As we pass an alley, a rebellious looking TEENAGER is pinned 
to the ground by soldiers, caught tagging  Those who deny 
freedom to others deserve it not  on a wall.  His compatriots 
flee down the other end of the alley from pursuing soldiers.  

 his under curses DRIVER the slow, to has Hummer Alex  Then
breath, as a large crowd crosses the street, drunk, partying, 
a sight worthy of old Vegas, revelers carousing.  

DRIVER
hell. to going city s This

In stark contrast to the people below, the high walls are 
armed with heavy artillery and modern missiles, the Statue of 
Liberty a watchtower, the city no longer focused on gambling, 
the lights judiciously used to light and not entice. 

A fortified nondescript building stands in the center of 
town, heavily guarded.  Forty-story AGRI-TOWERS, each level a 
different crop, abundantly grow the food that easily feeds 
VEGA.  Animals are bred and housed below ground, in 
artificial environments.

There are a number of murals, paintings and statues of a 
BABY.  One mural is 100 feet tall on the side of what was 
 like look others representations, modern are some BALLY S;
they could be Michelangelo s work.  And all are different, no 
one baby alike.  

Strange RUNE SYMBOLS, like a language, are painted below the 
baby and on walls all over the city.      


THREE HELICOPTERS, black, armored gunships, bank hard by the 
windows and swoop down into the courtyard of the GRAND.  The 
GIANT GOLD LION illuminated. 

The gunships land as members of the SENATOR S HOUSEHOLD exit 
to greet them.  Black clad soldiers surround two MEN.  

Noma strains to see and is surprised.

NOMA
Is that David Weel and his son? 

Alex looks through his BINOCULARS to get a look. 

ALEX
Yeah. 22.


NOMA
Then whoever is in those choppers 
is a big deal. 

Alex keeps looking... 

NIGHT   POV ALEX    BINOCULAR

David Weel stands with William.  Armed guards surround the 
men, one stands out: THOMAS FORD scans his surroundings like 
a cat looking for a meal.

They wait as WOMEN get off the helicopters, some soldiers, 
some civilians, but ALL women.  No men.  The last off is a 
tall regal woman, wearing the outfit of a soldier, a gun on 
her hip. 

We will learn her name is ARIKA (32) and she is in charge.  

With her is the only male, a small, pale boy (10) named ROAN.  
The boy stays close to Arika, gazing wide-eyed at the 
  buildings. towering

David and William greet the delegation. 

One by one the group are taken through the Vega screening 
process.  They pass through the sleek body scanner, then a 
temperature gauge is placed against the back of the neck, the 
  GREEN. turns gauge

All clear, they head inside.


We DRIFT OUT over the walls and move into the ruins of Vegas  
to find... 

A CLOAKED MAN running toward Vega.  He s large, built, and we 
  hurry. a in he s sense we but face, his see can t

He stops, scanning the terrain for markings, staring at VEGA 
and then the stars above; positioning, looking for something 
he finds near a large rock.

He uncovers a trap door and slides it aside.  The man lowers 
a high tech torch below revealing a tunnel.  The tunnel, old 
and unused, leads straight to VEGA...


Roan easily slides past the female guards as he disappears 
into the shadows.


Roan has made his way to the 20th floor exterior stairwell, 
which is now fortified with GIANT ANGEL REPELLING SPIKES that 
point away from the building.  He reaches out and touches the 
SPIKES, OUCH, they re sharp and yanks his hand back.  Then he 
climbs up on the ledge for a better look...   

With a childlike curiosity he gazes out over Vega s walls, a 
killer view, breathes in deep, enjoying the fresh air, and 
takes in the sight of the city, the soft morning glow just 
 calm to seems it and beautiful It s  horizon. the touching
him. 


The SUN rises over the towers of Vega. 


Security shutters slam down over every window in the city, 
lights come on, creating perpetual daylight. 

Giant lights mounted on the walls flood the night sky, 
illuminating the surrounding area. 

The soldiers outside of the arena function like a tight crew 
acting with practiced precision to lock down Vega, rushing to 
positions, civilians flee indoors or underground.50.



A low flying POV is moving over the landscape FAST... it 
crests a rise and we see VEGA ahead.


An impressive explosion of firepower is unleashed off the 
walls of VEGA; advanced missile systems are launched at the 
moving targets.


We now see a contingent of six angels flies towards Vega, 
FAST.   

 They re  seen. we ve  Eight-Balls  any unlike are these But
like Special Forces angels, armored, trained, bladed wings; 
 deadly. them make that  adaptations  have all

Two of them are instantly destroyed by the onslaught, but the 
other four are able to dodge the ordinance.

A second wave of heavy artillery is fired from the large 
strafing GUNS, obliterating another of the angels, before the 
last three get up and over the walls, entering the city.  51.



The THREE angels have entered the city, flying fast down the 
strip.  

 higher a he s and WIKEN named is three the of leader The
angel, more powerful, more distinct, his eyes, wings and hair 
all jet BLACK.  Even the way he moves is more pronounced, has 
that same strange time-lapse effect that Michael just 
demonstrated.

 no do rounds the but WIKEN, hit and them on FIRE SOLDIER S
damage. 

THEY DIVE over a LARGE wall...


...into the courtyard above the underground reactor.  

A mean and quick battle takes place as Wiken and the angels 
destroy the soldiers trying to repel them.  The city sirens 
still blaring, we hear, over the walls, more soldiers rushing 
site. reactor the to

WIKEN turns toward the reactor, and finds Michael standing 
there. 

Michael s wings, WHITE FLECKED WITH GOLD, extend and without 
a word they launch at each other... two ancient angels at 
war. 

The fight is amazing to see, the skill and power of both 
impressive...


Alex, Claire and Bixby arrive in the hallway just outside of 
   empty. hall the it, made They  bunker. Weel s

Claire moves towards the large steel doors, but Alex stops 
her, turns her to him.   

ALEX
  now! Right  Leave.  go. Let s
Tonight.    53.


CLAIRE
Leave the city?  It s under attack. 
 Red. Code a is This

ALEX
 they time the By  perfect. It s
begin looking for us we can be on 
   Delphi. to way our

Bixby hears the plan, realizes that he was taking her with 
him and falls even more in love with Alex. 

But for Claire, it s something different.  We can see it now, 
the conflict in her, the love she has for Alex, but the 
loyalty she feels to her father, to Vega... The pull of that 
responsibility.   

CLAIRE
(the hardest words)
  can t. I
(beat)
Not right now.  My father needs me.  
Vega needs us.  We have to stay to 
protect the city.    We ll work all 
this out... no one is going to tell 
me who to marry.  

ALEX
 a have you ll think you makes What
choice?  

CLAIRE
Do you trust me?  

ALEX
(doesn t)
I trust you... 

 walk they and Alex s through arm her puts Claire this, Off
into the bunker followed by Bixby.   


Fires burn in the courtyard, the above ground building a 
blasted shell, a blinding smoke covers everything.  

 last the fighting He s  view. into springs Michael SUDDENLY
angel...

And destroys it, leaving just Wiken.

Wiken flees, flying straight up into the sky, dodging the 
heavy gunfire from walls and tops of buildings, and escapes 
into the clouds. 

Michael doesn t pursue, his wings morph back into his body as 
he turns and runs to save a soldier who is on fire, helping 
him and then disappears from view.


ROAN, keeps to the shadows, wounded, as he slips down an 
empty alley between the giant buildings of a casino.  He 
moves toward one of the main walls.  Soldiers are everywhere, 
the city ablaze with light.61.


Suddenly, two soldiers round a corner and see him, bleeding, 
holding a knife.  Before they have a chance to utter a 
syllable, he has killed them both. 

He doesn t have much time before others find him.  He runs at 
the wall and we focus on his BACK... as a RIPPLE moves up 
from the bottom to the top, like a wave, and as the RIPPLE 
spreads his WINGS grow out behind him and he takes flight; 
wings, hair and eyes all turn azure in color.   

OVER THE WALLS he glides up, up, the trackers light on him, 
fire and miss.  Roan escapes into the night.


A MILITARY VEHICLE drives into the country far outside Vega.  
  horizon. the lights glow blue pre-dawn the but night, It s

The VEHICLE stops and a MAN gets out.  He climbs a rise and 
Weel. William it s realize we

THREE FIGURES step out from under a rock outcropping in black 
cloaks.  GABRIEL towers over William, his fierce wings 
folding back against his armored body.  

Wiken and Roan stand back.  Roan is pale, wounded, but 
carries himself differently than before, a dangerous man, not 
a scared boy.  

William drops to his knees before Gabriel like a submissive 
 is tone Gabriel s  ground. the on focused eyes dog,
surprisingly soft.  Almost loving.

GABRIEL
My son...

Gabriel gently touches his head.  William looks up.

WILLIAM
 him. found We ve

END PILOT*