
      In the distance, across a broad inlet, a shuttle clings to 
      the side of a massive booster rocket. The sun is low in the 
      sky; it's corona bright and thick, the yellow light diffusing 
      into a hazy red sky. Music is an ominous beating harmonic in 
      the BG. Overall effect is... ominous.

      Pan down and left to medium long on a man leaning back 
      against the hood of a red convertible, his back is to the 
      camera. The sleeves of the blue and white cabana shirt he 
      wears flutter in the slight morning breeze. He is silent and 
      unmoving, the music continuing as a slow heartbeat. The man's 
      focus is obviously on the prepared launch.

      Cut to close on the man's face. His blue eyes crinkle, 
      squinting into the light of the rising sun, his expression 
      deeply thoughtful, as though the launch site holds some 
      deeper meaning for him. His short light brown hair stirs 
      slightly in the breeze, the light illuminates a darker ring 
      of blue around the blue iris. A young man, perhaps in his 
      middle thirties, fair and nicely attractive, the furrowed 
      brow pronouncing his concern. This is John Crichton- American 
      Scientist and Astronaut-- waiting fate.

      Cut to medium long on the launch pad at Cape Canaveral and 
      the shuttle. The sun is a huge white ball perched off to the 
      right of the launch assembly and all is set against that 
      deeply red tinged sky. Music continues. The ominous mood is 
      complete. Something's gonna happen. Something ... bad?


      Long on the Shuttle. It's into late morning or midday, the 
      sky is an intense blue, the shuttle pristinely white against 
      the brown booster rocket.


      Close on the booster engines firing, cut to long on the 
      shuttle as it lifts slowly from the launch pad. Cut to close 
      on the side of the shuttle as it rockets upward.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      6.
      CONTINUED:


      Cut to long across the inlet, the water and sky intensely lit 
      by the flare of the boosters, white plumes of smoke stretch 
      across the FG as the shuttle is hurled into the upper 
      atmosphere.

      Cut to close on the flames from the side booster rocket as 
      the shuttle climbs upward.


      A slice of Earth from space, it's outer curve blanketed in 
      blackness. Fade to the shuttle from the rear, hanging in 
      space above the earth, the sun is peeking over the far curve. 
      As the nose of the shuttle begins to drop, preparing to 
      deploy, the voice of a radio announcer is heard.

                                  ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
                    Ladies and gentlemen of the press. 
                    At 26:14 on the flight clock we 
                    begin the major experiment of this 
                    shuttle mission.


      The Shuttle's deployment arm lifts the small ship up and out 
      of the hangar. As the smaller ship moves free of the shuttle 
      doors, the wing tips lower and lock seamlessly into place. 
      The arm continues to deploy the smaller ship until the arm 
      locks, extending the Farscape One perpendicular to the 
      shuttle. Announcer's voice continues.

                                  ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
                      Sling-shotting him off into space 
                    at previously unrecorded speeds.
                                  (MORE)

                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      7.
      CONTINUED:
                                  ANNOUNCER (V.O.) (CONT'D)
                          (beat)
                    If successful, the results are 
                      anticipated as the first concrete 
                    step toward interstellar travel.


      Locking bolts blow, releasing the smaller ship from the 
      deployment arm. It floats gently, slightly above the arm.


      The rockets of Farscape 1 ignite, the rockets hurling the 
      small ship outward away from the shuttle. Cut to leading 
      shot, the module rocketing toward our POV, the intense blue 

      Close on the Farscape, friction glide over the earth's 
      atmosphere creating a white corona around the ship's nose and 
      belly.

      Long shot across Mission Control, providing a view of three 
        workstations in front of DK, two flanking him. Colonel 
      Crichton leans against a counter behind DK, a row of black 
      manuals just behind him lining the rear of the counter just 
      below a wide window into another room. A few people mill 
      about in the second room, mounted on the far wall is a large 
      blue circle logo, the legend: IASA.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    ...18 seconds...


      The friction and turbulence surrounding the module increases, 
      the white corona turning reddish as the small shuttle skips 
      and bounces across the earth's atmosphere.


      The small ship, streaking reddish/white flame, arcs speedily 
      around the global hemisphere, heading around the horizon.


      It's too late to abort; the nose of the small shuttle 
      encounters the leading edge of a blue wave and tumbles 
      forward on the impact.


      The Farscape tumbles toward a swirling blue vortex, is drawn 
      inside and disappears as the vortex winks out leaving only 
      the blackness of space.


      The small ship floating against a star studded blackness, 
      various asteroids of varying sizes share near space with the 
      ship.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                      Woo-hoo-hoo! Hey, did you guys get 
                    video through all that?

      John continues flipping switches, monitoring systems. His 
      eyes down on the controls, he hasn't looked up, or out...yet. 
      He gets nothing but static when he switches to receive 
      transmission.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                      Canaveral...
                          (static)
                    DK....
                                  (MORE)

                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    12.
      CONTINUED:
                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                          (static)
                    Dad?
                          (static)
                    Where are you guys, where's...

      Finally looking up, he realizes he's not in Kansas anymore.


      Large and small asteroids float in front of him; there is no 
      sign of the familiar blue orb that is Earth.


      The ship wobbles heavily as three fast moving craft rocket 
      overhead.


      The three small black craft arc away, around the curve of a 
      larger asteroid.


      Returning where we left off, Farscape 1, just floating where 
      it was spit out by the wormhole. Quick shot of John, watching 
      through the canopy as three of the small black craft, 
      PROWLERS, rocket back toward him, passing overhead. Another 
      Prowler, passing around the edge of the large asteroid behind 
      John's craft, passes much too close and their wings clip! 
      Both ships are thrown into a tumble.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    Oh, Jeez. Canaveral, I've been hit!

      The other ship tumbles toward an asteroid, vaporizing on 
      impact. John struggles with his controls, righting his 
      vessel, exterior retros firing. Inside the module, John 
      continues working with his controls, looking up as his vessel 
      passes near the underside of the large asteroid. As his ship 
      moves into the open he sees a large... vessel, our first view 
      of MOYA; under attack by the Prowlers, the ship is so massive 
      the prowlers appear as tiny specks, their laser weapons, 
      pinpricks against it's hull.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    That's big.

      More of the ship comes into view as the attack continues. 
      It's massive... the extreme, needless to say, John's never 
      seen it's like.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    That's really big.

      As he eyes the ship with casual wonder, he fails to note 
      immediately that his ship is being drawn closer to the larger 
      vessel, toward a large open door in it's side.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Oh, hell.

      Farscape 1 is so small it cannot be seen against the hull of 
      the Leviathan, or the huge open door in it's side. The attack 
      on this ship continues as John's voice continues over 
      transmission.

                                  JOHN (O.S.) (CONT D)
                    Ah, Canaveral, Dad... DK, I'm being 
                    pulled... ah.

      Close on the open exterior door, the view moving inside as 
      John's vessel is drawn within, John's POV as his ship seems 
      to be towed by an elongated black object, floating above the 
      deck of a monstrous cavern. John's voice continues, on the 
      ragged edge of panic.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    14.
      CONTINUED:


                                  JOHN (O.S.) (CONT D)
                    The engines not responding and I 
                    can't break away. Can anyone hear 
                    me?
                          (beat)
                      Canaveral?

      Drawn deeper inside the large cavern a massive internal door, 
      black as starless space, lowers at the approach of the 
      docking web and it's burden.

      John cranes his neck, looking out the upper canopy. Looking 
      ahead again as the ship is towed beyond the first interior 
      wall and into an even larger arena, the construction 
      strangely exotic, the walls curved, with two levels of 
      platforms following the interior walls. John is gaping, 
      staggered out of his mind.

                                  JOHN (O.S.) (CONT D)
                    Oh my god.

      The docking web tows the module out into the center of this 
      vast arena, the deck far below. John doesn't know 'what' to 
      do with himself.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Um...

      He looks 'extremely' worried. Finally registering when his 
      ship is lowered toward the deck, he engages the landing gear 
      and the ship touches down just as they lock in place. 
      Farscape rolls forward on inertia, into a smaller room, the 
      doors closing behind it as it's wings fold up, completing a 
      completely unexpected landing sequence.


      Prowlers continue attacking, close on a large black and red 
      object strapped across the nose of the massive ship.


      The control collar floats away from the ship, the sound of 
      energies building as she moves away. She's about to book!


      Close on the hull of a large space ship, COMMAND CARRIER.

                                  VOICE (V.O.)
                    Terminate assault.

      Cut to long on three prowlers hanging in space.

                                  VOICE (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    All Prowlers terminate assault.


      Two of the prowlers peel off, terminating the assault as 
      ordered. The third Prowler speeds forward, refusing the 
      order.


      Lights brighten along the exterior hull of the massive 
      Leviathan. The sound of increasing energy buildup as the 
      Leviathan's nose cone extends slightly, pan down showing her 
      full length. A bright glow from her tail and the tips of her 
      'wings' as they touch. The glow brightens-- a halo of 
      blue/white energy forming as the tips of her wings expand 
      away from her tail. Cut to reverse shot, the intensifying 
      light accompanied by arc lightening effects as the halo of 
      energy expands.


      Gorgeous CGI as blue/white light races along her hull, an 
      energy wave washing up from her tail to her nose. The halo 
      following, rushing up the length of her body, and she bursts 
      forward -- disappearing into the coruscating halo of energy 
      before it also winks out in a flash of white light. And she's 
      gone, Starburst to freedom.


      The burst of white light fades to close on the Command 
      Carrier. Moving slowly past, prowlers miniscule against her 
      side, large portals lining the side of the ship showing even 
      small lights, the many, many levels of the massive ship, by 
      scale, larger even than the three collared Leviathan's 
      preceding it. A voice, obviously over radio, directs 
      operations.

                                  VOICE
                          (low)
                    All prowlers report to squadron 
                    leaders and return to carrier.


      A burst of white energy and Moya glides out of a blue/white 
      halo, slowing as she powers down, bluish tendrils trailing 
      off her hull like water, her nose cone slowly retracting.                                                                                    24.




      Behind Moya a single prowler tumbles, out of control.

      INT MOYA - COMMAND

                                  ZHAAN
                    Pilot does Moya know where we are?

                                  PILOT
                    Yes, of course. We're. . . 
                    someplace else. I'll. . . get back 
                    to you on the specifics.

      Zhaan's attention turns to the bewildered human, still 
      sitting on the floor of command. Her tone is scathing.

                                  ZHAAN
                    At least we are free.

      Apparently, no longer needing his goodwill, Rygel 'spits' on 
      John, only serving to wake him from some kind of stupor. He 
      staggers to his feet, backing away from Rygel.

                                  JOHN
                          (angry)
                    What is the matter with you. . . 
                    people?!

      D'Argo turns and zaps John in the back of the neck with his 
      long, narrow tongue (CGI). John grunts in surprise, turning 
      to look in amazement at the alien-- then drops like a rock-- 
      out cold.


      Moya glides, unfettered, through space.                                                                                    25.





      Atmospheric flight, Transport pod maneuvering to the cloud 
      draped surface. looks oddly like Arizona, well, in a 
      completely surreal alienish way.


      A VERY large alien looking alien examines the ring Rygel 
      recovered earlier. This guy is immense, all teeth and jaws 
      and red eyes. Very puppet looking, sorry.

                                  RYGEL
                    You know, you only expose your 
                    ignorance if don't concede 
                    knowledge of the Hurlian Stone!

      The alien hisses, well, angrily. His voice, when translated, 
      a deep grating well of a sound.

                                  PROPRIETOR
                          (long hiss)
                    Twenty!

                                  RYGEL
                    Twenty barrels of fluid! There was 
                    a time when you would have been 
                      disemboweled with a. . . dull 
                    lashan spade for half such an 
                    insult to me!

      The alien hisses again, prolonged, and definitely kinda 
      pissed. Rygel cowers a bit.

                                  RYGEL (CONT D)
                          (wheedling)
                    Thirty five?


      Carrier cruises too camera. Impressively large as it cruises 
      by our pov. Don't see the rear. Wonder if it has a 'we break 
      for no one' bumper sticker back there.

                                  TEEG (O.S.)
                    Captain!


      A teeming market place, filled with various alien lifeforms. 
      Pan R to John standing in BG, taking everything in, a bright 
      awed grin. 


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    42.
      CONTINUED:

      Freezing, completely floored-- again, as he looks up. Cut to 
      city overlook (CGI), view rises into a vista of an immense 
      city, many alien spacecraft moving through the atmosphere, 
      and it hits him.

                                  JOHN
                    I'm on another planet.


      Long on the crowded and dingy area. More alien lifeforms. 
      Zhaan in the FG speaks to a bulbous bi-pedal creature. D'Argo 
      enters L, speaking into a comms device on his wrist. Rygel 
      floats in the far BG, still deep in negotiations.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Yes Pilot, understood.

      Disengaging his comms, D'Argo joins Zhaan, pulling her away 
      from an unheard discussion. He pulls her aside.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    The female Peacekeeper and the 
                    human have just escaped and there 
                    is a full command carrier on 
                    approach to this planet.

                                  ZHAAN
                    A full carrier? Crais. But it makes 
                    no sense for him to come after us 
                    himself.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Unless the two who just escaped are 
                    something very special. This barter 
                    session is over.

      And they hurry back toward Rygel.

      Cut to Rygel, still hovering in front of the huge Proprieter. 
      D'Argo enters shot, placing a hand on his shoulder.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    Trouble, we must go.

                                  RYGEL
                    Hm. How much are you asking for 
                    those wellan globe crystals...?!

      D'Argo yanks Rygel away from his negotiations.

      END ACT II

      ACT III


      Aeryn stalks up behind John, still standing awestruck.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    43.
      CONTINUED:


                                  AERYN
                    Come on. I've relayed our 
                      rendezvous point, we can get off 
                    this wastehole of a planet.

      She turns and walks back the way they came, and with a final 
      awed look he follows. Above them, a wedge of skyline in the 
      darkness (CGI), and whine of engines. They see Moya's 
      transport pod lifting off.

                                  AERYN (CONT D)
                    That's the Leviathan's pod. They're 
                    getting away! Come on, we have to 
                    report it.

      The pod passes overhead, then cut to John, catching up with 
      Aeryn.

                                  JOHN
                    Hey! Aren't we about to be rescued 
                    any minute?

      He turns her around with a hand on her arm, already careful 
      to stay out of range.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    I mean- what? They're no danger to 
                    us, right?

                                  AERYN
                    They are prisoners, escaped 
                      prisoners. They must be 
                      recaptured...

      Pan L quickly to D'Argo, standing behind them, Qualta Blade 
      at the Ready.

                                  D'ARGO (O.S.)
                    Or destroyed!

      Cut to John and Aeryn, wheeling about they run through the 
      crowd, D'Argo following. They dont' get far-- remembering the 
      alleyway is a dead end. Aeryn turns again, stiffening to a 
      defensive posture, ready for hand to hand combat. D'Argo 
      smirks.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    Do not tempt me.

      John circles behind her, edging around toward a more viable 
      retreat.

                                  JOHN
                    You need to get out of here, 
                    there's a ship full of Peacekeepers 
                    on it's way here right now.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    44.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  AERYN
                    Traitor.

                                  D'ARGO
                    That is why I want you both aboard 
                    Moya... as insurance.

      Cut to long through crowd as a squad of uniformed and armed 
      PK's press through the crowd, making an aisle for Crais.

                                  JOHN
                    Just go, before...

      John freezes, looking at something behind D'Argo. Cut to a 
      grim looking Crais, making his way down the aisle cleared by 
      his escort of armed soldiers. Cut to close on Aeryn, her arms 
      dropping and assuming an attitude of attention. D'Argo snorts 
      in derision.

                                  D'ARGO
                    You are such fools. I will not fall 
                    for such an ancient ruse...

      Cut to Crais, standing in the open.

                                  CRAIS
                    But fall you will, Luxan.

      D'Argo spins, facing the voice.

                                  CRAIS (CONT D)
                          (nodding to the soldiers)
                    If the Luxan gives you any trouble, 
                    kill him.

      Soldiers grab D'Argo from behind as he prepares to attack 
      those in front of him. He snarls, struggling against the many 
      arms holding him back. His tongue lashes out at the soldiers 
      in front of him, but he's disarmed, the electronic whine of 
      the cuffs snapped around his wrists signifying his defeat. 
      They pull him back as Crais approaches. Aeryn steps forward.

                                  AERYN
                    Captain Crais.

      He spares her an angry glare-- moving past her toward his 
      real quarry, stepping close to John, eyeing him with apparent 
      cold disinterest.

                                  CRAIS
                    Name.

      He looks around, confused, why's he been singled out?

                                  JOHN
                    It's, uh... John Crichton.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    45.
      CONTINUED: (3)


      Crais circles behind him, evaluating him, probing with a 
      further mildly disinterested question.

                                  CRAIS
                    And where are you from... John... 
                    Crichton?

      John turns his head, trying to keep an eye on Crais as he 
      circles him. Wariness keeping him silent. Aeryn steps forward 
      helpfully.

                                  AERYN
                    Sir, he claims to be a human from a 
                    planet called Erp.

      John, looks away from Crais, cocking his head comically and 
      mouthing "erp?" with disbelief.

                                  AERYN (CONT D)
                    But he's shown himself to be...

      Crais turns away, focussing on Aeryn. Guy is on the ball, 
      knows who she is and everything.

                                  CRAIS
                    To be what, Officer Sun? A clever 
                    impostor? An accomplice to a ship 
                    full of escaping prisoners?
                          (beat)
                    My brother's murderer.

                                  JOHN
                          (stunned)
                    Your brother's what?

                                  CRAIS
                    You charged my brother's Prowler in 
                    that white... death pod of yours.

                                  JOHN
                    Wait a minute. You-you talkin' 
                    about that near miss I had the 
                    first minute I got here? Th-that 
                    was an accident.

                                  CRAIS
                    It was no near miss for my brother.

      Crais circles his prey again, this time John turns, keeping a 
      wary eye on him.

                                  CRAIS (CONT D)
                    A human? It will require some... 
                    study.

      Crais steps in close and it is an incredible two shot, John 
      and Crais in profile as Crais spits hate.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    46.
      CONTINUED: (4)


                                  CRAIS (CONT D)
                    I will personally... enjoy pulling 
                    you apart to see what you are made 
                    of.

      He nods to the PK's and they seize him roughly.

                                  JOHN
                    Hey!

      Brandishing heavy weaponry in his face, the PK's secure his 
      wrists with an electronic whine of steel cuffs. Aeryn steps 
      forward again, unthinking, perhaps remembering an implied 
      promise of escape, safety.

                                  AERYN
                    Wait.

      Crais turns, mildly surprised.

                                  CRAIS
                    Yes, Officer Sun. You know 
                    something about this... alien?

      Cuffed and angry, John watches the exchange.

                                  AERYN
                    Only that I have spent some time 
                    with him, sir, and I believe him 
                    when he says that what happened to 
                    your brother was an accident. I 
                    don't believe that he is brave 
                    enough or intelligent enough to 
                    attack one of our Prowlers 
                      intentionally.

      Crais eyes her suspiciously.

                                  CRAIS
                    Exactly how much time have you 
                    spent with this human?

      Aeryn is speechless, D'Argo uneasy, perhaps knowing something 
      John doesn't, but he does sense danger to her, stepping in to 
      protect her the only way he can.

                                  JOHN
                    Not a lot.
                          (He looks at Aeryn and 
                            their eyes meet)
                    Not much at all.

      He nods slightly to her, hoping she'll support what he's 
      saying. Crais pauses, evaluating what he has heard, 
      evaluating the meaning of the human's defense of her before 
      continuing.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    47.
      CONTINUED: (5)


                                  CRAIS
                    Because as you know, Peacekeeper 
                    High Command has very clear 
                      parameters regarding contact with 
                      unclassified alien life forms. You 
                    may have very well exceeded those 
                      parameters Officer Sun...

                                  AERYN
                          (clearly terrified)
                    No, sir...

                                  CRAIS
                    ...which would make you 
                      irreversibly contaminated.

                                  AERYN
                    No, sir, I...

                                  CRAIS
                    Take them away. Take them all away.

      The uniformed PK's begin herding John, Aeryn and D'Argo away.

                                  PK OFFICER
                    Move!

                                  PK OFFICER 2
                    Prepare them for transit while we 
                    locate the other prisoners.

      Pulled away, D'Argo hurls one final assault at Crais.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Warrior to warrior, I vow, one day 
                    I will kill you!

                                  PK OFFICER
                    Keep moving.

                                  PK OFFICER 2
                    Come on!

      EXT SPACE - PLANETARY ORBIT - MOYA - CGI


      The Prowler approaches the outer hanger door, cruising 
      inside, shot pans R following the Prowler into the caverous 
      transport hangar.


      Moya heading away from the planet, to camera, the Command 
      Carrier in the BG in pursuit.


      Closing the distance, moving toward our POV. Cut to close on 
      the massive wheel that contains three gigantic cannon mounted 
      inside.

                                  PILOT (O.S.)
                    Frag cannons are locking on.


      Close on the frag cannons, pivioting to aim, directly to 
      camera.


      Closing the distance.


      Closing the final distance, the Command Carrier roars past 
      our POV.


      The huge trio of cannon fire, heavy energy bolts streaking 
      away, missing Moya by a small space. Moya rolls to her 
      starboard side, one of the bolts flaring against her 
      underbelly.


      The ship, nose down to the planet, begins to pull up. A flare 
      of white heat from the nose as she skims across the 
      atmosphere.


      Moya trails fire as her speed builds.                                                                                    60.




      Moya trails a broad cometlike tail as she cruises at speed 
      over the planet.


                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    Pull out... pull out, now!

      The ship arcs up, sparking a final moment in the atmosphere.


      Breaking the grip of planet's gravity, the Leviathan shoots 
      off into deep space at breakneck speed.


      Moya glides through a deep void, in the far distance a large 
      galactic spiral glows.

      ROLL CLOSING CREDITS