
      Megan stands awkwardly on her fire escape clutching her laptop, 
      her boiler plate and two extra bags of Ramen noodles.  

      Beat.  Beat.   

      She looks down through the grate and sees a MOTHER and LITTLE 
      BOY standing below, looking up at her.  

                                  LITTLE BOY
                I can see your va-jay-jay. 

      Megan smiles weakly, and attempts to cross her legs into a 
      pretzel.  WAILING SIRENS of an incoming fire truck fade into...                                                                                       5.




      The DING! of an elevator door opening, revealing:

      Megan with BRIGHT RED hair.  Her clothes so new they still have 
      the tags on them.  She clutches her laptop to her chest as she 
      bravely walks down the hallway.  All eyes are fixated on Megan.     

                                  MEGAN
                Hi, Steve.  How s it going?  Barbara... 


      Over various GLAMOUR SHOTS of Palm Beach we hear:                                                                                       9.



                                  DEBRA (V.O.)
                A dear friend of mine is interviewing 
                people right now.  It s not a writing 
                  position, but academic excellence is a 
                must. If you get the job, you d be mingling 
                with the richest people in the world.  
                Leaders of industry, heads of state, 
                  Hollywood moguls.  The job itself might not 
                be glamorous, but your surroundings will 
                be.  Those who know the area refer to it as 
                Palm Beach.  Those who live there simply 
                call it... The Island.  

      As a private jet lands on the runway... 


      TIGHT ON a pair of dirty Keds as they step out of a limousine.  
      PULL OUT to reveal Megan as she takes in her surroundings.

                                  MEGAN 
                Whoa.      

      CONTINUE PULLING OUT to take in the spectacular enormity of the 
      estate called LES ANGES.  Megan s hair is already starting to 
      explode from beneath its tightly wound band thanks to the moist 
      heat.  She tries to smooth it down as the DRIVER appears beside 
      her, taking her crappy, canvas bag.   

                                  MEGAN (CONT D)
                  Humidity.  It s the work of the devil.  


      The AUDI heads down Southern Beach Blvd taking us out of the 
      ritzy Palm Beach and onto I95.  She dials her cell, then: 

                                  MEGAN
                Charlie? 

                                    CHARLIE (V.O.)
                Hey!  How d it go with the interview?  


      40 miles never looked so far apart, as Megan makes her way down 
      one of the main streets of Fort Lauderdale.  

                                  MEGAN
                It went well.  Ish.  

      She rounds a corner...


      ... and attempts to parallel park in front of this local 
      hotspot.  Great food without the tourists.  It s hip without 
      being pretentious.   

                                    CHARLIE (V.O.)
                So were you out all night celebrating?  

                                  MEGAN
                Not exactly.  

      She gets out of the car and walks inside.                                                                                     22.




      ... and up to Megan.  He stops in his tracks when he sees how 
      smokin  the car is.  She smiles, loving it.  

                                  MEGAN
                Oh yeah.  I got all kinds of bling going.  

      And then she accidentally sets off the alarm.  Oopsie.  

                                    CHARLIE
                Very nice.  Look, about your dad --

                                  MEGAN
                Charlie --

                                    CHARLIE
                It s just, I see him around, you know?  And 
                your sister...

                                  MEGAN
                Oh my God.  Please don t tell Lily.  That s 
                the last thing I need right now.  

                                    CHARLIE
                So you want me to lie to your whole family? 

                                  MEGAN
                  Omission, Charlie.  Lie by omission.  And 
                if you start to feel guilty, just remember 
                the key point.

                                    CHARLIE
                Which is? 

      She flips her shades down and gets into the car.

                                  MEGAN
                I m not back.  

      With that, she shuts the door.  Off Charlie, all kinds of 
      smitten.  And we re not just talking about the car... 

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                      END ACT TWO                                                                                    25.


                                      ACT THREE


      Sad houses with crummy lawns.  Megan s new car looks out of 
      place as it cruises towards a small home.  She allows the car to 
      idle in front as she DUCKS DOWN.  

