
      Begin on a photograph of a 15 year old boy - DANE McGOWAN.  The sort of 
      thing mums keep on dressing tables. A man and a woman briefly study the 
      picture. They look like social workers, dressed in black. The faces are 
      bland, barely registering. They look almost like clones, ciphers. The 
      Midwich Cuckoos grown to maturity. The woman slips the photograph into a 
      black zip up folder and they walk out of shot, so that we’re looking 
      through the chain link gates at a neo-brutalist reform school/correctional 
      facility.  Neat identifying sign on the gates tells us that this is 
      HARMONY HOUSE.  Faint screaming and sobbing from within.

       
      CREDITS SEQUENCE

       
      2. EXTERIOR. COUNCIL ESTATE. NIGHT

      Petrol bomb is lit. Here’s DANE McGOWAN, 15 year old hooligan. Face of an 
      angel, soul of Beelzebub.  He pulls back his arm.  Petrol bomb poised to 
      throw. An image of revolution.  Mad joy on his face.

          DANE :     YAAAAAAAA

      He hurls the petrol bomb.


      3. INTERIOR. SCHOOL LIBRARY. NIGHT.

      Petrol bomb smashes through window, exploding merrily. Liquid flame spills 
      across the floor. The curtains ignite.

      4. EXTERIOR. COUNCIL ESTATE. NIGHT.

      Flamelight on the excited faces of Dane and his partners in crime GAZ and 
      BILLY. Gaz is crop-headed, dumb and always ready for trouble. Billy sports 
      baseball cap, spots, greasy hair.  He’s less sure of himself, more afraid 
      of being caught. Sound of crackling glass and flames.

          GAZ :     YES! Nice one, Dane!

      Dane, face rapt as a saint’s, pauses for just a moment to admire his work, 
      then, reluctantly, makes a decision.
          
          DANE (shouts) :     RUN FOR IT!

      He starts running.  Billy’s right behind him.  Gaz waits for just a 
      moment, mesmerised by the flames, then follows.  Mad, headlong rush 
      through the neglected streets.  Among the graffiti on the wall, we glimpse 
      the words ‘KING MOB’.  The boys are full of life and vigour.  Yelling and 
      laughing.

          
          DANE (singing) :     WE ARE THE BOYS! WE ARE THE BOYS! WE ARE THE 
      MILTON...

      He leaps into the air, triumphantly.

          ALL :     PO-SSE!

      Laughter as they disappear down the street, kicking refuse sacks open.


      5. EXTERIOR. COUNCIL ESTATE. NIGHT.

      Fire engines and police cars racing down street. Bells ringing, caterwaul 
      of sirens.

          DANE (V.O.) :     Check it out.


      6. INTERIOR. HIGH RISE BLOCK. NIGHT.

      Fire engine sound is more distant.  In the afterglow of the arson attack, 
      Dane, Gaz and Billy, drinking beer, jumpy with adrenalin by a broken down 
      lift.  Graffiti and misery. We see ‘KING MOB’ again in background. Dane’s 
      looking out of the smashed window, across the rooftops and the 
      wastegrounds, watching the school blaze.

          DANE :     Imagine the whole world burning down.  They’d need a 
      million fire engines. 
      He takes a slug from his can, thoughtful.  Gaz has found the ‘KING MOB’ 
      graffito and picks at it with his nail.

          GAZ :       Have you seen this ?

          BILLY :     It’s just a band, I bet.

      Dane reaches out to touch the letters.  Strange look in his eyes.

          GAZ (daydreaming) :     I wish I had a band.

      Dane’s still pondering the graffito.

          DANE :     It’s weird, that.  It’s sort of like you’ve seen it before 
      but you’ve not. What’s the word for that ?              

          BILLY :     Drugs.

          DANE :     Away and shite.  There’s a word for it.

          GAZ :        Deja vu.
          
          BILLY (camp mockery) :     Ooooh! Deja vu!

          GAZ (bristling) :    That’s what it is.  My gran said.

          DANE (getting annoyed) :     Your granny’s an old drunk loony!

          GAZ :        Shut up!

          DANE (on the offensive) :     There’s nothing weird about my dreams, 
      right ?
                    [challenging Gaz] :     Who says they’re weird ?

          GAZ :     You told us you can see things that are gonna happen, didn’t 
      you ?

          DANE (escalating anger) :     Aye ? So ? Who made you the expert ?

          GAZ :     That’s how we always get away, isn’t it ? That’s how we 
      never get caught doing nothing, isn’t it ? You’ve got a guardian angel.  
      Don’t try to deny it.

      ’KING MOB’ on the wall.

      7. INTERIOR. BOARDROOM. NIGHT.
          
      Open on a tabletop model of the Canary Wharf development with the pyramid 
      tower.

          BARCLAY : ‘Look on my works ye mighty and despair.’

      Two men studying the model: PETER BARCLAY - in his 50’s, highly 
      successful, good suits but with a whiff of brimstone. He’s built an empire 
      on corruption, greed, backhanders.  With him is minion WALLIS - in his 
      30s, a toadie greedy for promotion.

          BARCLAY :     Have you read Shelley, Wallis ?

          WALLIS :     John Grisham, sir.  Not much time to read...

      A sudden interruption. Boardroom doors fly open and a man enters like a 
      little tornado.  A frustrated, spoilt child in adult form, wearing the 
      Harry Palmer 60’s look - the suit, the  polonecks, glasses. This is COLIN 
      RANSOM, a major player in the struggles to come.  Ransom is in his late 
      30s, the manager of Britain’s most successful band.  A cross between Alan 
      McGee and Chris Evans, he’s a media brat for the 21st century.  
      Info-literate, superficially hip.  He’s done drugs, he’s been through the 
      therapy.  He has a lava lamp. And he represents one of the biggest and 
      most dangerous tentacles of the global conspiracy against Freedom and 
      Evolution.  He should seem hip and connected, obsessed with the 60’s and 
      scared to face the future.  Ransom is accompanied by his ‘PA’, MISS DWYER 
      - Dwyer is an upper echelon, elite agent for the dark side of the 
      conspiracy.  She’s an attractive woman in her late 20s - outwardly 
      power-dressed and efficient but with a subtle air of corruption 
      and...’tightness’. She’s like a spinsterly schoolteacher but something 
      about the way she moves suggests restriction, almost torture, as though 
      she’s wearing some lethal bondage wear under her ladyboss clothing. She’s 
      in charge here but she’s pretending not to be.  She wears a pair or round, 
      black blindman shades.  Ransom storms past Wallis.

          WALLIS (uh-oh) :   shit. [tries to recover, a wan smile]  Mr. 
Ransom...

          BARCLAY (trying to stay cool,worried) : Colin! Is there something 
      wrong ? I wasn’t expecting to see you.

      Ransom takes a look at the desktop model, then turns on Barclay.

          RANSOM :     You! Right ? You.
                 
      Barclay is seething but the balance of power is very obvious here.

          BARCLAY :     Colin ? 

          RANSOM (pulling rank now) :  This thing...this monolith monstrosity 
      thing here’s finally ready to do what it was built to do. Right ? 
       
      Ransom gestures dismissively at the Canary Wharf model.

          RANSOM :     I’ve got the single of the year all set to come out dead 
      on time for April 31st.

      Miss Dwyer hands him a fizzy drink can. It should have a distinctive 
      platinum and gold design with bands of red through it.  Ransom’s own Solar 
      Cola drink. 
          
          RANSOM :     Everything’s smooth as baby oil on our end.

      Crack. Fizz. Ransom takes a slug of cola, deliberately building the 
      tension.  Lowers the can, quietly menacing in that schoolboy fashion he 
      remembers from being on the receiving end in the classroom.

          RANSOM :     Why is Ladyhill’s still a problem ? How come everybody’s 
      got their shoulder to the wheel except you, Pete ?
                             What is it we¹re waiting for here ?   You’re two 
      million over budget.
          
          WALLIS :      Well, you can blame those crusties in the woollen 
      pullovers. Mr. Ransom, we...

          BARCLAY (taking out his anger) :    No-one’s talking to you, Wallis. 
          [ to Ransom] :                              We’re facing terrorists. 
      It’s that simple. They’ve blown up equipment, threatened employees, spiked 
      trees...

      Ransom pulls out a color printout of Michael Warren’s face - front cover 
      of ‘The Face’.

          RANSOM :            Look at this! Michael bloody Warren.
          [exasperated] :    He’s got internet sites! He’s on the front cover of 
      The Face!  Maybe you¹ve missed all this, Peter.

      Ransom spikes the Warren picture on one of the little buildings on the 
      model. The whole thing shakes. Suddenly it’s more Potty Time than James 
      Bond. Barclay can’t keep his mouth shut. The model cost money.

          BARCLAY :     Careful!  Those things don’t grow on trees...

      Ransom empties his can in a stream down the side of a model building, 
      along the street. 

          RANSOM (astounded, the effrontery!) :     What ? It’s balsa wood!

      Ransom hurls the half full can into the model, smashing the pyramid top of 
      Canary Wharf. Barclay looks pained, restraining himself.

          RANSOM :     It is a bloody tree!

      Turns to Dwyer. 

          RANSOM :     Balsa wood’s a tree, isn’t it ?

      She makes a note to find out as Ransom turns on Barclay again.

          RANSOM :     Bottom line; I don’t care who’s shitting in your nest, 
      Peter.Deal with Michael Warren and the eco-warriors, get that site cleared 
      and get that road built.  
                             Sort it.

      He turns to leave. 
          
          BARCLAY :    Get me more security. These activists know their stuff.
          
      Ransom moves to collect his cool coat, making Barclay sweat a little.

          BARCLAY (trying to save face) :     This is as important to me as it 
      is to you. It’s just...

      Ransom is putting on his coat.  He’s seething.

          RANSOM :     It’s just what ? What is it just ?

          BARCLAY :     I’ve been threatened. Personally.

          RANSOM :     And ? What d’you want me to do ? Hold your hand ?  Sort 
      it. And you can take that as a threat.

      Pause.

          BARCLAY (gritted teeth) :     Leave it to me.

      Ransom turns as he’s leaving.

          RANSOM :     See what happens when you let the working classes get to 
      the top ?

      Through the big picture window we see the real Canary Wharf, ominous under 
      a gloomy evening sky.


      8. INTERIOR. CORRIDOR. NIGHT.

      Barclay and Wallis are walking down a tastefully decorated corridor. The 
      scent of design money well-spent. Barclay looks impatient, irritated. The 
      meeting with Ransom has set his nerves on edge. Wallis scurries along 
      beside him, yes-man to the end.
         
          BARCLAY :     Working class!  His mother’s a doctor.
          
      Barclay stops outside the washrooms.
          
          BARCLAY (pausing at the open door) :     I’m going to dump my shit 
      into the Thames and when I come back I expect you to be a goldmine of 
      useful information.
                                                                     I want to 
      know about the resistance our project is facing, I want to know about the 
      protest campaign. Names. Addresses. I want the opinion polls and I want to 
      know everything about Michael Warren and his friends.
                        [tense beat]                     :     Everything, 
      Wallis.

      He goes into the washroom.

          WALLIS (quietly) :     Mr. Barclay.
          [exhales deeply, bites lip]


      9. EXTERIOR. STREET. NIGHT.

      Ransom and Miss Dwyer leave the building and head for Ransom’s psychedelic 
      Rolls Royce - either the real thing or a copy of John Lennon’s famous 
      painted Rolls.

          RANSOM :     What a prick! 

          DWYER :       Arrange a meeting with Sir Miles. Barclay can have all 
      the security he wants, if that’s what it takes.
          
