       
      Harmony House gatesign by night. Lit by the periodic flashes of a Polaroid 
      camera. Faint, hopeless cries from deep within the awful building.


      Establishing shot. Fences, brutalist blocks. Grey clouds in a cold sky.

          GELT :     Conformity.



      MICHAEL WARREN onscreen, delivering his passionate response to an 
      interviewer’s question. He’s a powerful speaker.
        
          WARREN :     ...What I’m saying is this and it’s trying to be sane and 
      rational in the face of hysteria and to actually look at what’s going on 
      here...and what I’m saying is that cars kill more people than drugs do. 
      And we have this incredibly well-funded ‘War on Drugs’ going on in the 
      name of public health and safety. When the truth is that our governors 
      have no concern for either our health or our safety and if they really, 
      honestly wanted to stop people dying, they would ban motor cars.
          Maybe we can’t win but when they try to trample and bulldoze their way 
      through Ladyhill we’re prepared to put our convictions to the test and I 
      prefer to think we will win because we’re right.

          [tape rewind]

          Maybe we can’t win.

          [tape rewind]

          We can’t win.

       


      Michael Warren’s taking a piss in the dusk, away from the fires and drums 
      of his camp. He’s suddenly alert as leaves fall down in front of him. 
      There’s someone standing there, then that someone coming out of the woods 
      then motionless by his side once more. A weird distortion of perception. 
      The figure’s silhouetted, backlit by fire, but it’s King Mob. Background 
      sound fades down.

          WARREN :     You didn’t have to kill the poor bastard.

          KING MOB :     Come off it. You hated Barclay more than anybody else. 
      He’s digging a hole through your sacred pagan grove or whatever it is.

       
          WARREN :     I didn’t like working for him, that doesn’t mean I want 
      to see the inside of his head splattered across a toilet wall.  This won’t 
      help us.
              
          KING MOB :     You’re part of something bigger, Michael. Cold war. 
      We’re living in an occupied country.

          WARREN :     I’m a pacifist.

          KING MOB :     Then it’s lucky for you we’re not.  It’s the end of the 
      world as we know it, Michael. Things get fuzzy when it all starts to speed 
      up.

          WARREN :     I just want to save the planet.
          
          KING MOB :     The planet doesn’t need you to save it. It’s people who 
      need to be saved. We’ll be in touch.

      King Mob looks at his watch. Presses it. Fluttering of perception again 
      and Warren is alone with the sound fading back up. Somewhere on the 
      building site, a piece of plant blows up.

          WARREN :     Christ!



      The image fritzes and goes out.



      Motorway Surveillance camera in shot. As the Invisibles-Mobile goes by, 
      the camera fuses and shorts out. Spy theme fade.


      Dane sneaks out into the corridor. There’s a trolley there, with someone 
      in it.

          ORDERLY (world-weary) :     They don’t usually do theatre this late.

          SECOND ORDERLY :     Special case or something. I don’t know. Christ, 
      that siren’s doing my head in!  That’s noise pollution, that.  You can 
      claim for that.
      Dane take a moment to look at the trolley. It’s Gaz, partially-conscious, 
      lying stiffly. His eyes are dark-shadowed. He’s not the cocky little kid 
      we remember.

          DANE :     Gaz ?

      Slowly Dane moves around the trolley.
          
          DANE :     You all right, Gaz ?

          GAZ :     Good.



      Dane’s fussing around Gaz, building suspense. The eerie poster on the wall 
      with the schematic faces.

          DANE :     Gaz. What’s up ? What did they do ?

          GAZ :     Good.

      Dane’s scared. Creepy scalp-crawling fear of the uncanny. He knows 
      something is badly wrong. Reaches for the edge of the bedcover and lifts 
      it up. The poster faces gaze down.

          DANE :      Gaz, it’s all right, wee man. We’re getting out of here.  
      I’ve worked it out. Come on!
          
          GAZ :     Bad.

          DANE :    Come on...

      We don’t see what Dane sees under the cover but it’s bad.

          DANE :     For fuck’s sake.
       


      Dane stands outside a big hole in the chain link fence. Firelight on his 
      face, muffled explosions as the buildings burn merrily. King Mob’s 
      suddenly standing beside him. Dane’s expression is one of rapt delight as 
      he watches the fires. An almost devotional look on his wild, young face.

          DANE :     What about my mate ?

          KING MOB :     Too late.
          
          DANE (knowing this is true) :     He was an all right wee guy.
          [pause] :     This is what you do ? You just go about killing people 
      and blowing things up and that ?  That’s brilliant, that is.

      King Mob pins a blank badge on the coat he’s slung over Dane’s pyjamas.

          KING MOB :     You have that. It’s sort of a secret society, see ? 
      Call it the Invisibles - like the Avengers or the Persuaders...

          DANE :     What ?

          KING MOB (kids nowadays) :     We’ve been watching you, Dane.  We 
      thought you might want to join us.

      Dane is instantly suspicious. Unpins the badge from his lapel but slides 
      it into his pocket. King Mob takes a spray can from his own pocket.

          DANE :     Aye? Funny how suddenly everybody’s saying that. Nobody 
      gave a shite about us before. What am I supposed to have done ?
      King Mob’s spraying something across the ‘HARMONY HOUSE’ gatesign.

          DANE :      I don’t even know who you are or nothing.

          KING MOB :     Yes you do.

      He turns and walks away. Dane looks at what’s been written. Understanding 
      dawns.

       Dane joins King Mob as they disappear into the woods. We return to the 
      ‘HARMONY HOUSE’ sign. The words ‘KING MOB’ have been sprayed across it.

      Explosions offstage.
       


      King Mob and Dane wander like ghosts down the overlit avenues displaying 
      TVs and stereos and clothing and cars.

          DANE :     All right. Thanks for getting us to London, eh ?  If you 
      could give us a couple of quid I¹ll go and give my Auntie Diane a phone.  
      I mean, I¹m not saying I don’t want to join up with you or nothing but I 
      can take care of myself.
       
          KING MOB :     Pretty hard, eh ?  You’ve got a lot to learn.

      Dane entranced by a sportscar in a window. There’s an old dosser – TOM 
      O’BEDLAM - nearby. He looks up at Dane. Some understanding passes between 
      the dosser and King Mob.

          DANE :     AW!   Check that out! Imagine you’d one of them.

      King Mob stands behind him. He looks over at the old man who tips his 
      bottle. His eyes seem suddenly bright and intense.

          KING MOB :     Dane. Have you never thought about just how strange all 
      this is ?  You see ghosts, don’t you ? You’ve got the power; that’s why 
      they all want you. Maybe you’re seeing ghosts now,  eh ?

          DANE :     Ghosts, yeah. That’s a good one.

      King Mob’s reflection is in the glass over Dane’s shoulder. Ghostly.  The 
      other Invisibles stand with him. Just a flash.

          DANE :     What’s it all about anyway ?

      And then a car light smears the reflection and King Mob and the others are 
      no longer there and Dane’s aware of it.

          DANE :     Invisibles ?

      Dane alone and lonely on the suddenly threatening streets of night-time 
      London. King Mob has gone.

      Tom O’Bedlam cackles.

      END THEME