
  An Amtrak train snakes through the countryside.  The January 
  morning is so cold, it's clean.  Welcome to Kansas.


  The wheels of the train chug along.  We watch this image long 
  enough to wonder why we re watching it for so long.


  Jake s taxi moves through the city streets, then enters a 12 
  story parking garage with a sign... Monthly Rates Available.


  We see a MOTORCYCLE GANG making life hell for a student 
  driver, then move over to Jake's Mustang as it pulls off the 
  crowded highway.  A sign reads... Jericho 87 miles.


  The image goes high as the Mustang cuts through the 
    countryside.  Jake passes rivers, streams, bridges, farms.  
  Jericho may be isolated, but nobody can say that the ride to 
  it isn t gorgeous.  No traffic.  Blues skies.  Peace.


  As Jake pulls up to a stop sign, he looks to his right to 
  see... a JERICHO ELEMENTARY SCHOOL BUS.  The CHUBBY BUS 
  DRIVER stands in front of the bus s smoking engine.  He 
  shakes his head in frustration and pulls out his cell phone.  
  Jake shifts his glance to the PRETTY TEACHER as she guides a 
  group of excited 2ND GRADE KIDS into the visitor s center.

                                PRETTY TEACHER
                Come on, kids.  Single file now.  
                      (a fat girl trips)
                Oh, dear.  Are you okay, Hilda?


  As customers browse the farm s roadside stand, BONNIE 
  PETERSON, 17 and cheer-leader juicy, sits behind the cash 
  register.  She text messages her boyfriend.   I miss you so 
  much.  Can you come back this weekend?                                                                                   4.



                              STANLEY PETERSON
                BONNIE!

  Startled, Bonnie turns to her big brother, STANLEY PETERSON, 
  27, an avid car lover who has no luck with women.

                              STANLEY PETERSON (CONT D)
                Mom and dad didn t keep you out of 
                school today so you could text 
                message your boyfriend.
                      (off Bonnie s groan)
                I know.   He moved away.  My life 
                is over.  Blah blah.   Put down the 
                phone, Bonnie!

  Bonnie grumbles.  Stanley turns and sees Jake climb out of 
  his Mustang.  At first, Stanley can't believe his eyes.  
  Then, a smile creeps over his face.  Jake approaches.  The 
  two old friends smile.  And then, Stanley starts hugging him.

                              STANLEY PETERSON (CONT'D)
                I can t believe it.  Jake Green!  
                My God.  When you get back to town?

                              JAKE
                Just now.

                              STANLEY PETERSON
                You seen Emily yet?  The family?

                              JAKE
                I just got back now, Stanley.

                              STANLEY PETERSON
                Oh, right.  Right.  Sorry.  Wait.  
                Where the hell have you been?

                              JAKE
                Around.

                              STANLEY PETERSON
                No one is  around  for 5 years.  

                              JAKE
                Believe it or not... the Army.

  Just then, a woman emerges from the farm house.  MIMI CLARK 
  is 30, sexy, stylish, Jewish, urbanite, and couldn't look 
  more out of place.  Stanley s good humor instantly vanishes.

                              JAKE (CONT D)
                Who s that?                                                                                  5.



                              STANLEY PETERSON
                That?  That s the government.

                              JAKE
                Sexy government.

  Mimi Clark runs frightened from a chicken.   Ewww! 

                              STANLEY PETERSON
                Don t let the style fool you, Jake.  
                Miss  shiver me timbers  is from 
                the I.R.S.

                              JAKE
                IRS?  Audit?... Not going well?

                              STANLEY PETERSON
                Forget it.  How about you and me 
                get together tonight?  Catch up?

                              JAKE
                I d love to, but I m only in to see 
                my grandpa, then I gotta get back.  
                So, if I can get my mother s 
                favorite Peterson Apple Pie...

  Stanley nods, slaps Jake s shoulder, and turns to find...

                              STANLEY PETERSON
                BONNIE!

  Bonnie drops the phone and scrambles to get Jake's order.

                              STANLEY PETERSON (CONT D)
                Welcome back to Jericho, Jake.


  We see it all through Jake s eyes.  Unlike most of flat, 
  dusty Kansas, Jericho is nestled in the foothills.  It s a 
  town that embraces its Old West roots and Frontier Spirit.  A 
  statue reads... Welcome to Jericho: We Stand Strong.  
  ELECTION POSTERS hang on every storefront and telephone pole.  
  ELECT GRAY ANDERSON.  RE-ELECT MAYOR GREEN.  All to the 
  lovely sounds of Sean Hannity raving on the radio...

                              SEAN HANNITY (V.O.)
                ... we got an advanced copy, and 
                let me tell you, friends, this 
                speech is going down in history.  
                Bold agenda.  Bold.  Okay, who do 
                we have?  Tiffany in Homestead, 
                  Pennsylvania.  Hi, Tiffany.                                                                                  6.



  As Tiffany tells Sean he s a great American, Jake turns off 
  the radio and keeps driving.  To his right, Jake sees a 
  moving truck.  ROD HAWKINS, 39, serious, African American 
  tips the movers as his wife and kids play in the yard.  
  Suddenly, POLICE LIGHTS FLASH behind Jake.  Jake pulls over.  
  He looks in the side view mirror as two ominous pairs of 
  policeman s legs approach.  Jake sighs until...

                              JIMMY
                  I thought I recognized this car.

  Jake looks at JIMMY, 42, and BILL, 42, two best friends and 
  the laughing stock of the police force.  They smile at Jake.

                              JAKE
                Hey Jimmy, Bill.  Still buying 
                those lottery tickets?

                              JIMMY
                Man, if we ever win the lottery, 
                our wives are going to become world 
                  travelers.  

                              BILL
                Yeah, they re going to go 
                  everywhere looking for us.

  Jimmy and Bill laugh.  Jake smiles.  Same old joke.

                              BILL (CONT'D)
                So, where you been hiding, Jake? 

                              JAKE
                Believe it or not... the rodeo.


  As Jake leaves the store, he sees a woman coming out of her 
  car.  EMILY SPENSER, 26, is young, pretty, and idealistic.  
  Jake's heart skips a beat.  She flirts into her cell phone.

                              EMILY
                No, it s a surprise.  No, Roger.  
                You ll find out tonight.  Now, when 
                do you get in from Chicago?

  Emily looks up to see Jake.  Her heart skips a beat.  Emily 
  is immediately distracted as she talks into her cell phone.

                              EMILY (CONT D)
                11 o clock.  I ll see you tonight.
                      (locking eyes with Jake)
                I love you, too.

  She hangs up.  Jake and Emily look at each other.  It hangs 
  in the air for a long, charged moment.

                              JAKE
                Hi, Emily.

                              EMILY
                Jake.  My God.  What--

    A complete loss for words.

                              JAKE
                Yeah.  I just came in for the day.  
                See my grandfather.  The family.

                              EMILY
                Sure.  I just... I didn t hear.

                              JAKE
                Well, I would have called, but... I 
                have to get back to Santa Fe.
                      (off her look)
                Long boring story.  How have you 
                been?  Mom tells me you re teaching 
                at the high school now.

                              EMILY
                I know.  Weird, huh?  But it s 
                good.  Other than teaching the kids 
                I used to baby-sit.  But I love it.  
                Just got a house in the Pines.

                              JAKE
                East Side?  On a teacher s salary?                                                                                  9.



                              EMILY
                Well... my... fianc  is in banking.

  Just the word.  Fianc .  Jake does his best to keep it light.

                              JAKE
                That helps.  Do I know him?

                              EMILY
                No, I was at a conference.  We met 
                in Chicago.
                      (off his look)
                I know.  A city boy, right?  But 
                Roger loves small town life.

  Jake nods.  He never did.  Finally... 

                              JAKE
                Well, I m happy for you, Emily.  I 
                mean, you know, other than...
                      (turns on charm)
                ... the part of me that s dying.

  Emily laughs.  It breaks the ice.  All kidding now.

                              EMILY
                How about you?  You have somebody?

                              JAKE
                No.

                              EMILY
                I m sorry.

                              JAKE
                No, you re not.  You love it. 

  Emily laughs.  Jake keeps smiling and riffing.

                              JAKE (CONT'D)
                You won the reunion.  You know it.  
                Look at you.  

                              EMILY
                      (huge smile)
                Where have you been all these 
                years?

                              JAKE
                Believe it or not... the navy.

  Emily gives him a look.  Jake smiles.  Guilty boy grin.                                                                                10.



                              JAKE (CONT D)
                Right.  You always know when I m 
                lying.  One of your less attractive 
                  qualities.

                              EMILY
                  Seriously, Jake.  Where you been?

  The laughs are over.  Jake looks at the ground.  Decides.

                              JAKE
                Can you keep a secret?


  Ding dong.  Jake waits at the door, nervously.  We hear 
    footsteps.  Then, the door opens, revealing Jake s mother.  
  GAIL GREEN, 56, is a brilliant politician's wife and a cooler 
  lady.  Strong.  Savvy.  Jake presents the apple pie.  They 
  both break out in smiles.  Then, they both break out in hugs.


  The tombstone reads... "Peter Jake Green: Beloved Father.  
    Grandfather.  Mayor."  Jake takes the bouquet of flowers he 
  bought at Gracie s store, then kneels down.  He places the 
  flowers on his grandfather s grave.  It s a painful moment 
  for him.  Gail is a rock for him.

                              JAKE
                Mom, I m sorry I couldn t come to 
                the funeral.

                              GAIL
                It s okay.  I understand.  And 
                don t worry about dad.  I ll work 
                on him.  In the meantime...

  Gail holds out a handful of bills.  Jake shakes his head, no.

                              JAKE
                Thanks, but I didn t come here for 
                charity.

                              GAIL
                Are you sure you can t stay?

                              JAKE
                I have to get back by tomorrow.  
                You know that.

  They move to his Mustang.  They hug for a long time.  Gail 
  quietly slips the wad of bills into Jake s coat pocket.

                              GAIL
                When will I see you again?

                              JAKE
                Whenever you can visit Santa Fe.  
                      (off her look)
                Mom, I can t start a new life in 
                the old one.  This is the last day 
                I ll ever spend in Jericho.                                                                                15.



  One kiss.  Jake climbs into his car.  Gail smiles, sadly.

                              JAKE (CONT D)
                Oh, mom.  One more thing...

  Gail walks up to the driver s side window.  Jake puts the 
  bills back in her hand.  And smiles.

                              JAKE (CONT D)
                You have clumsy hands.

  She smiles.  Jake pulls away.  Gail watches her boy go down 
  the foothills and to the horizon as the sun begins to set.


  Good old hide and seek outside of this isolated house on the 
  west side of town.  Woody, his hands over his eyes, counts it 
  down.  His breath is foggy from the cold.

                              WOODY
                3-2-1... ready or not, here I come!

  Woody looks around.  No one under the porch.  No one in the 
  tool shed.  He finally creeps around to the bushes on the 
  West Side of the house.  And...

                              WOODY (CONT D)
                Gotcha!

  Woody grabs his little sister, SALLY, who giggles until she 
  sees Woody has a horrified expression on his face.  She turns 
  around, and the image moves with her.  It s then that we see 
  it.  In the distance, what used to be Denver is now...

    A mushroom cloud.


                                END OF ACT ONE                                                                                19.


                                    ACT TWO


  They are speechless.  Stanley, Bonnie, and the rest of the 
  Peterson family rush out of the house to get a better view of 
  the horizon.  Bonnie drops her open cell phone to the ground.


  CRASH!  Jake holds his left arm up to brace his impact, but 
  it s too powerful.  His head hits the steering wheel.  The 
  car buckles, then careens into a ditch.  Jake passes out on 
  the steering wheel.  His head makes the horn Beeeeeeeeeeee.  
  We move away from him into the freezing night on this 
  isolated road.  His car looks small.


  Peter parks his Oldsmobile with a skid.  Doors open.


  A police car flies down the street, followed by a Fire Truck.  
  But Stephanie Lancaster doesn t notice them.  Stephanie 
  Lancaster is in another world.


  Dale Turner sees the police car racing down the street.  He 
  moves to his trailer past a few frightened and crying folks.

                              TRAILER PARK FOLKS
                 Oh, my God    Are we under 
                attack?    Oh, those poor people. 


  As Mimi Clark exits the tavern, she sees it.  Something s 
  strange.  People are gathering outside.  Some are crying.  

                              MIMI CLARK
                Excuse me, sir.  What s going on?                                                                                23.



                                FRIGHTENED PASSERBY
                Nuclear explosion.  Near Denver, I 
                think.

                              MIMI CLARK
                But... what... did they get D.C.?


  We see a cell phone that reads... Call Was Lost.  We move up 
  to the shattered face of Mimi Clark.  

                              MIMI CLARK
                Mom, please pick up the phone.

  She tries again.  No service.  Panicked, she begins to run, 
  past a poster of the smiling face of GRAY ANDERSON.


  GRAY ANDERSON, 44, is slick, savvy, and politically astute.  
  He passes a lady cop, speaking into her radio.

                              LADY COP
                Bill?  What s the ETA on those 
                Geiger counters?


  Beeeeee.  In the freezing January night, we see Jake's 
  Mustang, crumpled in the ditch.  After a beat, Jake opens his 
  eyes.  He blinks a couple of times and slowly moves his head 
  off the steering wheel.  The beeeeeeeee is replaced by the 
  sound of silence.  He touches his forehead.  Blood.  He looks 
  at his leg.  More blood.  He moves his pants back.  

  A surface cut runs down his leg.

  Jake tries to start the car, but the engine block seems 
  cracked.  Vrrrr.  Vrrr.  Nothing.  Jake reaches over with his 
  left hand to open the car door.  The second he pushes on the 
  door, he screams out in pain.  His left arm is severely 
  sprained.  Jake opens the door with his right arm.  Then, he 
  limps toward the station wagon he collided with.  

  He peers into the wagon and sees... AN OLD COUPLE.  Not 
  moving.  Jake grimaces.  He opens the door.  Feels the lady s 
  pulse through her neck.  Dead.  He reaches over and feels the 
  old man s pulse through his wrist.  Same.  He stands, and in 
  a reflex from childhood, he crosses himself.  Then, the 
  shivers take over his body.  It s freezing. 


  Jake opens the station wagon s back.  Looks for anything that 
  can help him.  Mixed in with all the junk, souvenirs, and 
  luggage, he sees a golf bag, a belt, and an overcoat.  He 
  wraps the belt around his leg to try and stop the bleeding.                                                                                  27.


  Then, he grabs a golf club.  Finally, he grabs the overcoat.  
  When he picks it up, something goes clunk on his hand.  He 
  reaches into the coat and pulls out... a flask.


  Jake, using the 5 wood as a makeshift crutch, begins to walk 
  down the road toward a hill.  A small body in a massive sea 
  of black.  He s in the middle of nowhere.  


  Emily drives through the Pines - Jericho s community on the 
  East Side of Town.  Quite ritzy.  Quite isolated.  Behind 
  trees.  In the dark of night.

  She turns right and takes the East Road out of town.  Her 
  Jetta gets smaller and smaller in the distance until it 
  disappears.  And then, finally, the Fire Truck arrives to 
  block the East road out of town.


  Jake turns around.  Did he hear something?  He looks at the 
  woods.  The breeze rustles the leaves.  He turns around and 
  keeps walking.  Three steps.  He stops.  He hears feet 
  running at him.  His imagination gets the better of him.  The 
  feet are getting closer.  Jake holds up the 5 wood, ready to 
  defend himself.   And just when he - and we - were sure he 
  was going to be attacked... two little kids run up to him.  
  One boy.  One girl.  Terrified.

                              GIRL
                Mister, please.  

                              JAKE
                What is it, kids?  What s wrong?

                              BOY
                I think they re dying.


                                END OF ACT TWO                                                                                30.


                                  ACT THREE


  The kids drag a limping Jake onto an isolated rural road.

                              GIRL
                Please, mister.  Hurry.


  The police gear up to go on the search and rescue mission.  
  Guns.  Ammunition.  Extra batteries.  The Sheriff looks at a 
  jittery YOUNG COP, who s obviously terrified.

                              SHERIFF
                Don t worry, son.  There s nothing 
                out there we can t handle.

  ROD HAWKINS, the new man in town, passes some townspeople, 
  asking questions.   Folks, it could have been an accident.  A 
  test.  Please.   Rod approaches one of the younger cops, an 
  African American guy, about 25.

                              ROD HAWKINS
                Excuse me, son?  Who s in charge?

  The cop points at the Sheriff, who is busy barking orders.  

                              SHERIFF
                ... Jimmy, get on the bullhorn and 
                calm the folks down.

  Jimmy clicks on the bullhorn.  As he tries to quiet the 
  crowd... Rod approaches the sheriff.

                              ROD HAWKINS
                You the sheriff?  Rod Hawkins.

                              SHERIFF
                Good to meet you, Mr. Hawkins, but 
                I m afraid we got our hands full 
                right now... Damn fools!

  Just then, the Sheriff sees 2 pick-up trucks enter the 
  parking lot.  Inside the trucks are the FATHERS of the 
  missing school kids with rifles.

                              SHERIFF (CONT D)
                Gray, will you tell the weekend 
                warriors the drill, please?

  Gray Anderson nods and approaches the trucks.                                                                                31.



                              ROD HAWKINS
                Could you use an extra man?

                              SHERIFF
                No civilians.  Mayor s orders.

                              ROD HAWKINS
                I used to be a cop.  St. Louis.

                              SHERIFF
                You know those roads out there?

                              ROD HAWKINS
                No.  Just moved to town.

                              SHERIFF
                Then, I m afraid you d only slow us 
                down.  Sorry.

  The Sheriff pats his shoulder, then turns.  The only thing 
  Rod hates more than machismo is a mistake.

                              ROD HAWKINS
                Sheriff.  You might want to get 
                some black spray paint.

  The Sheriff is confused.  Rod points at the big Jericho 
  emblem on the sides of the police car.

                              ROD HAWKINS (CONT D)
                To cover that.  Look, I know you re 
                telling people it was an accident.  
                And I hope it was.  But if it was 
                an attack, and there is chaos out 
                there... you might not want the 
                wrong people to know that Jericho 
                is still here.

  Rod starts to leave.

                              SHERIFF
                Mr. Hawkins... The fire department 
                could use an extra man.  Next time, 
                you re with us.

  Rod nods at the sheriff.  Respect.  As Rod leaves, Stephanie, 
  Alvie, and his mother, Teresa Clemons, approach.

                              SHERIFF (CONT'D)
                Mrs. Clemons.  I already told you.

                                TERESA CLEMONS
                But my daughter, Stacy--                                                                                32.



                              SHERIFF
                You want to help your daughter?  Go 
                rustle up some black spray paint.  

  She nods, eager to contribute in any way she can.  They start 
  running the other way, passing... Gray Anderson as he talks 
  to the FATHERS in the pick-ups.

                              IRATE FATHER
                But my son is out there!

                              GRAY ANDERSON
                If it were up to me, I d let you.  
                But those are the Mayor s orders.


  We see the power grid begin to cut off across town from 
  above, and then we move to specific locations...


  Quick shots like a ricochet...

  - The street lights turn off like a kick line.  

  - The radio operator s static turns to... silence.

  - The FIRE CHIEF shouting into a bullhorn  Folks, there is no 
  fallout.  We think it was an acci--   The streetlights turn 
  dark.  People scream.   We re under attack. 

  - The Shell gas station.  Packed with cars.  Some townspeople 
  get what gas they can in the panic.  The numbers click off.  
  Gallons.  Dollars.  Cents.  And then... complete darkness.  
  The pumps stop.  No more gas.

  - Mimi Clark in her hotel room.  Trying the landline phone 
  for the 100th time.  Losing it.  Darkness.

  - Road Out of Jericho.  Jimmy and Bill spray paint the sides 
  of the cars.  Darkness.  The EMT Crew Chief turns to the 
  Sheriff.   Don t worry.  We ll handle the town.  Move. 

  - The Mayor and Peter in the Oldsmobile as the traffic lights 
  go black.   Hurry, Peter. 

  - Stanley in his pick-up truck with Bonnie driving into the 
  dark town.   I guess they already know. 

  - Gracie Leigh alone in her store.  Darkness.  The broom in 
  the corner now looks like an attacker.   Who is that? 

  And then...


  Jake s eyes go wide.  Near a cluster of trees, he sees... the 
  Jericho elementary SCHOOL BUS.  A flat tire on the rear axle.  
  The hood smashed from the tree the bus hit.


  Two police cars head out into the night.  Lights flashing.  
  Passing the tall water tower that reads:  Jericho.  The 
  police cars each split in a different direction.


  Alvie s mother, Alvie, and Stephanie surround the Fire Chief 
  along with a crowd, shouting questions.  Did they blow up the 
  power station?    We re under attack!   And then... ROD 
  HAWKINS approaches.

                              ROD HAWKINS
                Folks, I doubt anyone blew up the 
                power station.  It was probably a 
                drain on the system from Denver.

                              FIRE CHIEF
                Are you the science teacher?


  Knock.  Knock.  Peter stands with Mayor Green, who coughs.

                              PETER
                Dad, did you take your pills?

                              MAYOR GREEN
                I m fine.  Don t worry about me.

  Suddenly, the door flies open and a shotgun is leveled at the 
  Mayor s chest.  Chik-chik.  After a beat, OLD MAN OLIVER, 68, 
    a bonafide kook, puts down the gun.                                                                                38.



                              OLD MAN OLIVER
                Sorry, Mr. Mayor.  Thought you were 
                aliens.  We re under attack by 
                aliens, don t you know?

                              MAYOR GREEN
                Oliver, do you have your ham radio?

                              OLD MAN OLIVER
                Yeah, but I ain t got power to run 
                it.

                              PETER
                I know someone with a generator.

                              OLD MAN OLIVER
                Okay, then.  50 cents.

                              PETER
                OLIVER!

                              OLD MAN OLIVER
                I need my 50 cents.

  The Mayor pulls out a dollar.

                              OLD MAN OLIVER (CONT'D)
                Okay, let me get your change.


  The Sheriff drives through the darkness.  

                              SHERIFF
                Jimmy, what s your 20?

                              JIMMY (V.O.)
                Willow Creek, Sheriff.  Nothing.

                              SHERIFF
                We re almost to Cedar Run.

  The nervous YOUNG COP stares at the Geiger counter, waiting 
  for it to CLIK-CLIK.  You can almost hear his heartbeat.


  The flashlight rises, lighting the Sheriff s face.  He looks 
  shocked.  A reverse angle reveals that he s not looking at 
  Jake, Heather, the kids, or the School Bus Driver, but a...

  PRISON GUARD

  Shot through the forehead.  He moves the light to the bus.  A 
  State Trooper is dead.  The rest of the bus is empty.

  The Sheriff s men shine their flashlights on the outside of 
  the bus.  We see the words...  

  KANSAS STATE MAXIMUM SECURITY PRISON


                              END OF ACT THREE                                                                                44.


                                    ACT FOUR


  Rod Hawkins climbs quickly up the telephone pole.  He looks 
  out over the town.  People roam the streets.  Frightened.

                              ROD HAWKINS
                Chief!  You need to get some lights 
                on.  Folks are starting to lose it.


  Stanley Peterson s pick-up truck comes to a skid.  He opens 
  the door and rushes to the house.  Bonnie follows.


  The station is still crowded as the crowds of cars try to 
  untangle themselves in the darkness.  Cars honk.


  Stephanie Lancaster starts crying.  Alvie holds her.

                                STEPHANIE
                I told my mom I wish she d die.


  People rush down the streets.  In the middle of this storm of 
  activity, we see a lone figure, walking.  The trailer park 
  kid, Dale Turner.  With a blank expression on his face.


  The freezing night.  Quickly.  We move from the jack, 
  hoisting up the bus, to the rear of the bus where Jake grabs 
  the spare tire.  He throws the spare on the ground.  Thud.  
  He connects the lug wrench with the first lug nut on the flat 
  tire.  He kneels down, his leg throbbing.  Grimaces.  Fights 
  through it.  He leans in and pushes with all the strength in 
  his right arm against the lug wrench.  Nothing.

  He tries again, GROANING this time.  Nothing.  He s gotta use 
  his legs.  He stands, steadies the lug wrench, brings his bad 
  leg up.  And just as he brings it down as hard as he can...


  The kids are in a line on the side of the bus.  Jake bends 
  down on his knee.  Pain.  He puts the lug wrench onto the 
  flat tire s lug nut.  Holds it in place.

                              JAKE
                Go.

  The first kid in the line runs at the tire iron and jumps.  
  He lands on it.  Doesn t budge.  

                              JAKE (CONT D)
                Out of the way.  Next!

  The second kid runs at the tire iron.  Jumps.  Nothing.  Jake 
  bows his head.  His body shivers in the freezing cold.

                              JAKE (CONT D)
                Please, help us God.


  Cars honk in the darkness.  With no power, the pumps will not 
  work.  NORMAN PERRY, whose labor dispute with Shep Cale feels 
  like an ancient memory, kneels by his SUV, screwing the cap 
  on his extra 2 gallon gas can.  A BURLY MAN approaches.

                              BURLY MAN
                Hey.  You get extra there?

                                NORMAN
                Sorry.

                              BURLY MAN
                What do you mean sorry?

                                NORMAN
                First come.  First serve.

                              BURLY MAN
                You already filled your car.  What?  
                You gonna mow your lawn?

                                NORMAN
                Sorry.  My family--

                              BURLY MAN
                We all have families.  Come on.

  The Burly Man reaches for the can.  Tug of war.                                                                                48.




  Mayor Green helps Peter unload the ham radio from the trunk.  
  The Mayor has to stop.  He begins coughing.  Pale and sick.

                              PETER
                Dad, you don t look well.  Let me 
                take you home.

                              MAYOR GREEN
                I m fine.  Let s get it inside.


  We see a pair of little feet run toward the lug wrench.  The 
  feet jump.  The feet land.  Click.  The lug nut budges.  The 
  image tracks up to a little fat girl.  Jake smiles.

                              JAKE
                What s your name?                                                                                49.



                              HILDA
                Hilda.

  Jake smiles at her.  Hilda smiles back.  A long beat.

                              JAKE
                      (funny)
                I DIDN T TELL YOU TO STOP JUMPING.  
                COME ON!

  Hilda goes back to starting position.  Jake shakes his head.

                              JAKE (CONT D)
                God, is there anything worse than 
                handling kids?


  The answer is yes.  Handling adults.  The gas can is dropped 
  as the Burly Man throws the first punch.


  The Fire Chief, Rod Hawkins, and the Firemen are surrounded 
  on all sides.  Gray Anderson watches them confer.  

                              FIRE CHIEF
                Lights.  Lights.  Well, we got a 
                couple portable generators.  And 
                some flashlights.  Not enough to 
                cover the streets, though.

                              FIRE MAN (V.O.)
                Chief, we got real problems down 
                here at the Shell Station.                                                                                50.



  Gray Anderson hears the news about the Shell Station.  He 
    considers.  Then, he leaves the scene.


  Peter stands with Mary Bailey, the sexy barmaid, out in the 
  alley.  He s on his knee, trying to start the generator.

                              MARY BAILEY
                Peter, what are we going to do?

                              PETER
                I don t know.

                              MARY BAILEY
                I m scared.  Peter...

  Peter turns around.  She looks at him.  One look and we 
  suddenly realize... they are not talking about the bomb.

                              PETER
                  I can t... we can t... not anymore.

                              MARY BAILEY
                But... Peter, I need you.

                              PETER
                I m sorry.  I have to be there for 
                my family.


  The 4 lug nuts are on the ground.  Jake slaps himself a 
  couple of times to stay awake, but the blood loss is making 
  it difficult.  Hilda huffs and puffs.

                              HILDA
                Are you okay, mister?                                                                                51.



                              JAKE
                Just don t let me fall asleep, 
                Hilda.  Come on, guys.

  Jake directs two boys pull the flat tire off of the bus.  
  They pick up the spare tire.  Jake helps them guide it into 
  the right spot.  Click.  Jake grabs the lug wrench, puts the 
  lug nut in place, and starts turning.  


  Gray Anderson continues walking, past terrified townspeople.  


  The Fire Chief listens to the radio.

                              RADIO (V.O.)
                We re 2 minutes from the Shell 
                station, chief.  

  The Fire Chief puts his radio away.  He looks at the portable 
  generators, flashlights, and lanterns on the streets.  Sighs.

                              FIRE CHIEF
                We re just not going to have enough 
                light.

                              FIRE MAN
                Maybe torches?  I don t know.

                              VOICE (O.S.)
                Turn on your headlights.

  The Fire Chief looks around in the crowd.  They find the face 
  of... Rod Hawkins.

                              ROD HAWKINS
                Have everyone turn on their head-
                lights and point them at the street.

  The Fire Chief looks at Rod Hawkins.                                                                                 52.



                              FIRE CHIEF
                Are you sure you re not the science 
                teacher?


  Dale Turner exits the store, his arms loaded with frozen 
  dinners.  And just when we thought he was indeed looting, 
  Gracie Leigh follows, her own arms loaded with frozen foods.  
  The image follows Gracie as she lays the dinners on...

  ... and enormous stack of frozen foods.  Dale has turned the 
  freezing alley into a makeshift freezer.  It looks like Dale 
  and she put the whole store in the back alley.  

                              DALE
                The food won t go rotten as long as 
                the weather stays below freezing.  
                But we need to get a tarp up to 
                keep the sun off of it tomorrow 
                morning.  Hopefully, they ll fix 
                the power before then.

                                GRACIE LEIGH
                Thank you for this, Dale.  But I 
                can take it from here.  You should 
                get on back to your mother.

  Dale is silent.  Then, he begins crying.  It finally dawns on 
  Gracie that Dale is all alone in this world.  She holds him.


  Jake tightens that last lug nut.  Starts to lower the jack.


  The fight has spread.  People are beginning to loot more than 
  the water at the convenience mart.  The Fire Men scream.

                              FIRE MEN
                 For God s sake!    Stop it!   
                 We re all in this together! 


  GONG!  Gail and Ann leave the house to see what s going on.  
  Ann carries the baby.  Gail holds Woody s hand.


  GONG!  The noise quiets down the crowd.


  GONG!  Alvie, his mother, Stephanie, Rod Hawkins, and the 
  Fire Chief all begin walking toward the sound of the bell.


  GONG!  The two Margarets leave the house with the children.


  The bus inches away from the tree it struck.  Jake backs up 
  the bus.  Gets it onto the road.


  GONG!  Mimi Clark leaves the hotel to follow the sound.


  GONG!  Gracie heads toward the sound.  Dale doesn t.

                                GRACIE LEIGH
                Dale, honey... aren t you coming?

                              DALE
                Someone has to guard your food.

                                GRACIE LEIGH
                This is Jericho.  We don t lock our 
                doors.  No one s going to steal it.

                              DALE
                Not everyone is as nice as you, 
                Mrs. Leigh.  And there are animals.  
                It s okay.  I ll be fine.

                                GRACIE LEIGH
                Thank you, Dale.  You might have 
                just saved the town, you know?

                              DALE
                Anything for you, ma am.  I won t 
                let anything ever happen to you.

  Gracie walks away, but not before looking back to see Dale,  
  stomping his feet and blowing on his hands to keep warm.  
  Having gone from the age of 17 to 40 in the space of 5 hours.


  GONG!  The throngs of people descend upon the church.  We see 
  quick reunions as Woody runs over to Jimmy s Margaret.  

                              WOODY
                Mom, I took care of the nice ladies!

  Peter rushes to Ann, much to Mary Bailey s dismay.  And 
  finally, Mayor Green joins Gail with a hug.                                                                                56.



  On the last GONG, the headlights and lanterns go on, 
    illuminating... GRAY ANDERSON.  He stands in front of the 
  church on the top of the hill, welcoming his town.


  The school bus passes the PRISON BUS and keeps moving down 
  the road.  The image follows it, then moves to the other side 
  of the prison bus.  The Sheriff and all of his men are dead 
  on the ground.  Their uniforms stripped off.  Their car gone.  
  The image moves to the Sheriff s hand where his radio starts 
  making a crackling sound.

                              JIMMY (V.O.)
                Sheriff?  Sheriff?  It's Jimmy.  Is 
                that your car behind us?  Why 
                aren t you with the kids?  Sheriff?  
                Slow down.  Sheriff.  You re going 
                to hit us.  Sheriff?!  Stop!!!!


                              END OF ACT FOUR                                                                                57.


                                    ACT FIVE


  The school bus limps into town, through the rows of 
    headlights and lanterns, its horn honking.  It stops in front 
  of the proud statue.


  The people rush out of the church, down the hill, to the 
  school bus, as Jake staggers out.  He looks like a ghost.

                              JAKE
                Help them.


  Illuminated by the town s headlights and Mr. Henderson s 
  lanterns, we see the best of Jericho at work.  

  The Fire Chief guides the EMT vans to the bus.  The EMT Crew 
  Chief pushes little Stacy.  Alvie and his mom follow with 
    Stephanie.  

                                TERESA CLEMONS
                Oh, Stacy.

                              EMT CREW CHIEF
                Don t worry, ma am.  We got her.

  Little Danny is scooped up by the Young Couple who first told 
  the Mayor about the school bus.  The second the Irate Father 
  sees his little girl, Hilda, he bursts into tears of relief.  
  The Irate Mother hugs her precious Julie.

  Gail, Mayor Green, Peter, and Ann move to the bus.  The crowd 
  parts and they see Jake, being loaded on a stretcher.

                              GAIL
                Oh, Jake!

  Gail rushes up to him.  Grabs his left hand.  Winces.   Ow! 

                              GAIL (CONT'D)
                      (cries laughs)
                Sorry.  Sorry.

  The crowd whispers,  Is that Jake Green?   Seconds later... 
  Peter, Mayor Green, and Ann approach Jake.                                                                                62.



                              EMT MAN
                Mrs. Green, we have to move him.

  Gail backs away.  Mayor Green and Jake look at each other.  A 
  mixture of every emotion.  Mayor Green touches Jake s good 
  shoulder.  Peter watches with a trace of jealousy.

                              JAKE
                Dad, there s an empty prison bus 
                out there.  

                              MAYOR GREEN
                I ll take care of it.

  Mayor Green backs away, but not before...

                              JAKE
                Oh, Dad.  One more thing.

  Mayor Green approaches and Jake puts something in his hand.  
  The EMT Crew carts Jake away and loads him on the ambulance 
  with Heather Lisinski.  The doors close.


  As the ambulances pull away, Mayor Green looks at the SWISS 
  ARMY KNIFE in his hand.  He turns to his town.  Mayor Green 
  is now a man who has seen the dark side of his town and will 
  never be the same.  He speaks from the heart.                                                                                63.



                              MAYOR GREEN
                You said you ve heard the speech 
                before, Shep.  But you ever wonder 
                why I say it?  Because I happen to 
                trust you people.  Because I love 
                my town so much that I never 
                thought you could riot.

  The crowd stares back at him.  He doesn t blink.

                              MAYOR GREEN (CONT D)
                You want to blame me for that?  
                Well, you go right ahead if you re 
                fresh out of mirrors.  Have someone 
                treat you like children.  Have a 
                dictator if you want.  But it s 
                never going to be me.

  The crowd looks down.

                              MAYOR GREEN (CONT'D)
                  Something happened in Denver.  
                  Something happened in Atlanta.  And 
                there s a chance we could wake up 
                and find out that s where it 
                stopped.  So, until we know, are we 
                going to use our imaginations to 
                solve problems or cause them?

  The Burly Man and Norman Perry look at the ground.

                              MAYOR GREEN (CONT'D)
                We can get the power on.  We can 
                find out how big this thing is.  We 
                can feed ourselves.  Protect 
                  ourselves.  Fight if we have to.

  Mimi Clark looks over at Stanley and Bonnie Peterson.

                              MAYOR GREEN (CONT D)
                But the only way that s going to 
                happen is if we work together.  I 
                know where I stand.  How about you?

  Gray Anderson watches the crowd.  Silent.  Digesting.

                              MAYOR GREEN (CONT'D)
                My son said there is an empty 
                prison bus out there, so until the 
                police return, I need guards on 
                every entrance and exit out of 
                town.  Volunteers?                                                                                64.



  The Fire Chief, Rod Hawkins, and the Burly Man raise their 
  hands along with some of the other men in town.

                              MAYOR GREEN (CONT D)
                Thank you.  Everyone else, go home.  
                We ll meet at the town hall in the 
                morning.  And folks... don t you 
                dare break my heart again.

  As the crowd disperses, the Mayor turns to his family.

                              MAYOR GREEN (CONT D)
                Come on.  Let s go to Jake.

  Some people shake hands.  Like the EMT Crew Chief and the 
  Fire Chief.  Other people are more suspicious.  Like Shep and 
  Norman Perry - union and management.  Still others reach out 
  to each other.  Like the two Margarets with the kids.

                                BILL S MARGARET
                Don t worry.  Jimmy and Bill will 
                be home soon.

  Just before the Mayor gets into Peter s Oldsmobile, he looks 
  over at Gray Anderson.  The men lock eyes.  Both smart, both 
  tough, both savvy.  It s going to be a dogfight.  

  As the volunteers team up to stand watch, the Fire Chief 
    approaches Rod Hawkins, looking out into the night.  The 
  world outside of Jericho.

                              FIRE CHIEF
                What are you thinking, Mr. Hawkins?  

                              ROD HAWKINS
                I was just wondering what it was 
                all going to look like in the  
                morning.

  The two men stand silently, watching.  The image pushes past 
  them into the darkness.  Into the world outside of Jericho.

