
      Fell Furs  timeworn sign hangs over a battered door in an 
        alleyway infested with piss and rats and needles and 
        trash -- both human and otherwise.

        The door SLAMS OPEN as Jake bursts from his factory, 
        storms determinedly down the alleyway into the seedy 
        embrace of night...



      Jake makes his way through the darker side of the urban 
        jungle -- passes vagrants, pimps, hookers, junkies -- 
        eventually makes his way to the entrance of a RAUNCHY 
        LOOKING STRIP CLUB:

        ANGLE: IN FRONT OF STRIP CLUB -- as Jake passes the 
        BOUNCER, who nods in recognition:

                                        BOUNCER
                      Evening, Jake.

      Jake nods back distractedly, heads down the stairwell 
      that leads into the alluring womb of darkness below...                                                                       "Pelts"  4.





      Much deeper in the woods.  They now feel more ancient.

      At once foreboding and alluring.  Mystical.

      Pa and Larry silently continue through Mother Mayter s 
        land, the hazy silhouette of A VAST STONE SCULPTURE -- 
        almost like a wall -- looming up around them from deep 
        within the dense foliage.

        Larry is both frightened and intrigued by this strange 
        place deep in the heart of the woods -- 

                                        LARRY
                                (surprised)
                      What are all these structures? 

                                        PA
                                (laughing)
                      You re gonna pee yourself, huh?  It s 
                      nothing... They say they are the ruins 
                      of an old city.

                                        LARRY
                                (looking at the obelisk)
                      And that is fantastic.

                                        PA
                      Enough.  Be quiet now.

        Larry S POV: OF THE STONE SCULPTURE -- it is more felt 
      than seen, its ominous megalith outline jutting through 
        the hazy fog in the distance of the woods:

        The STONE SCULPTURE is of the Dolmen variety: a type of 
        megalitico monument (slabs of stone horizontally 
        supported on vertical stones wedged deep into the 
        ground), and seems to demarcate some ancient sepulchral 
        usage.

        ANGLE: ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MEGALITH WALL -- as Pa 
        leads Larry up a nearby rise, Pa s face cracking into a 
        satisfied smile once at the top:

                                        PA (CONT'D)
                      Bingo.

        Larry joins his father at the top of the rise -- also 
        smiles with his father, happy to discover that:



                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  12.

        CONTINUED:1111


                                        LARRY
                      There s raccoons in all the traps you 
                      set down there -- !

        REVEAL: THEIR POV -- of the clearing in the distance 
        below, which is scattered with approximately ONE DOZEN 
        leg-hold traps, all of them containing writhing raccoons.

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      Told you everything d be okay.

      Pa heads down into the clearing, Larry nodding and 
        trailing excitedly behind him...

        EXTREME CLOSE ANGLE: A RACCOON S EYEBALL -- as we see Pa 
        and Larry approach in the reflection of the terrified 
        animal s beady black eye (NOTE: SIMILAR TO THE EXTREME 
        CLOSE ANGLES OF CROWS  EYES IN ARGENTO S OPERA).

      BACK TO SCENE: as Pa and Larry come to rest over the 
        raccoon and Pa prepares his son for the day s work:

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      You remember how I told you it s done?

                                        LARRY
                      I crush their throats?

                                        PA
                                (nods)
                      You flip  em on their backs...

      Pa flips the tired old raccoon on its back with his boot:

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      Then you put your heel over their 
                      windpipes.

      Pa puts his boot heel on the raccoon s throat...

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      And then you kick down.  Real hard.  And 
                      if you do it right, you ll hear a good 
                      crunch! as the windpipe shatters.

        Larry nods his comprehension as Pa smiles, then --

        EXTREME CLOSE ANGLE: RACCOON'S EYEBALL -- as its pupil 
        instantly dilates with death, accompanied by the 
        SICKENING THUD of Pa s heavy boot, the image of Pa and 
        Larry in the reflection instantly dull and lifeless.



                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  13.

        CONTINUED:1111


      BACK TO SCENE: as Pa looks down at the dead raccoon, 
        admires his work, then nods toward the clearing:

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      Course the heel ain t gonna work with 
                      the ones that still got some pepper in 
                       em.

                                        LARRY
                      It ain t?

        A chilling beat as Pa shakes his head and grins, then:

                                        PA 
                      That s where the bat comes in.

        Larry looks down at the baseball bat in his hands, is 
        suddenly mortified by the brutal instrument of death.

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      You give  em a bunch  a good, hard 
                      whacks -- I seen it take upwards of 
                      fifty swings one time -- and just bash 
                      their fuckin  skulls in.
                                (beat)
                      Now c mon -- we got ourselves some traps 
                      to clear -- !

        Larry looks up from the baseball bat, gulps back his 
        nausea and nods, staring into Pa s mad smile as we --

                                                                        DISSOLVE TO:



        The traps have been emptied, their sharp steel jaws 
        dripping with blood and tufts of fur.  

      Pa finishes skinning one of the animals.

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:

        The baseball bat is now drippy red.

        The once-empty sacks are now filled with the 
          approximately DOZEN RACCOON CARCASSES.

      We see Pa, who, with decisive movements is skinning a 
        raccoon.  

                                        LARRY
                      Look Pa.

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  14.

        CONTINUED:1212


      Pa turns.

                                        LARRY (CONT D)
                      It s empty.

        Larry indicates the empty trap, dirty with blood.

        But Larry s eyes suddenly light up:

                                        LARRY
                      Look -- !

      As they come upon the trap, Pa sees what Larry saw, just 
        shakes his head -- actually seems impressed:

                                        PA
                      I ll be damned.

        REVEAL: there is a BLOODY STUMP OF A PAW stuffed inside 
        the maw of the sprung trap.

                                        LARRY
                      Whaddya think happened?

                                        PA
                      Critter musta  chewed its own paw off.
                                (guffaws in admiration)
                      You gotta really wanna get free to do 
                      somethin  like that -- !

        Larry nods, meets his father s jocular laughter with a 
        forced smile as we take one last look at the grisly image 
      of the shredded paw in the jaws of the bloody trap --

                                                                        DISSOLVE TO:



        Larry and Pa tromp back through the empty clearing, sacks 
        strewn over their shoulders, Pa rubbing one of the pelts 
      that protrudes from his sack between his fingers --

                                        PA
                                (shaking head in awe)
                      We got ourselves almost a dozen 
                      beauties, son: in all my years, I ain t 
                      never seen pelts as pretty as these ones 
                      -- I can t even hardly believe they re 
                      coon.
                                (stuffs the pelt back inside)
                      We re gonna have money to burn after we 
                      sell  em to Feldman.

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  15.

        CONTINUED:1313


        Larry and Pa share a victorious smile, quickly noticing:

                                        PA (CONT D)
                      Shit -- it s Mother Mayter -- let s get 
                      outta here -- !

        ANGLE: THEIR POV -- a decrepit old cabin in the extreme 
        distance of the horizon, smoke billowing up from the pot-
        bellied stove through its roof.

        CLOSER: MOTHER MAYTER -- possibly as old as the woods 
        themselves, stands at her front porch:

      AN OLD ROBE is draped over her otherwise naked ancient 
        body, the old woman seemingly not remotely affected by 
        the extreme cold, the robe clearly keeping her warm --

      BACK TO SCENE: Pa and Larry scurry away from this barren 
        stretch of wilderness, slipping back out through an 
        opening in the old stone wall as the WINDS CONTINUE TO 
      RAGE and the storm s intensity escalates --

        Mother Mayter somberly watches the intruders rush away.  
        Displeased.

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



        The Jameson house is almost as rundown as its adjacent 
        barn, a dirty driveway connecting the two like a shed 
        piece of snakeskin.  A light glows inside the barn.



        The sun lords over a clear blue sky on this brisk 
        morning, its blinding brilliance almost painful as our 
      eyes adjust from the previous night s darkness.

        The house is preternaturally quiet -- the stillness 
        suddenly shattered by a LOUD KNOCKING:

        REVEAL: a car is parked haphazardly in the driveway.

        ANGLE: FRONT DOOR -- Jake pounds on the door, accompanied 
      by the foreseen Lou -- and after another unanswered 
        KNOCK, Jake hurries across the driveway toward the barn, 
        cursing Jed Jameson beneath his breath:

                                        JAKE
                      Fuckin  hillbilly bastard.



      Jake walks up to Lou, who finishes being sick, wipes his 
        mouth with his handkerchief, looks up at his boss:

                                        LOU
                                (scared)
                      What the hell happened here, Jake?

      Jake shakes his head, looks to the barn as if for an 
        answer -- he has no idea -- suddenly blurts:

                                        JAKE
                      Can you believe those pelts, though?

        Lou is incredulous:

                                        LOU
                      You gotta be kidding me.

        But Jake isn t remotely kidding -- a frightening 
        intensity blasting forth from his determined eyes -- 
        visions of Shanna spurning him on:

                                        JAKE
                                (ferocious)
                      Can you imagine the coat we could make 
                      from those pelts?  We might finally have 
                      something that d make a little noise 
                      next month.

                                        LOU
                                (understands)
                      Sirio...?

                                        JAKE
                              (nods in agreement)
                      World s biggest international fur show.

        Lou looks away -- isn t surprised when Jake suddenly goes 
      to his car, backs it up to the barn, pops the trunk.

                                        LOU 
                                  (halfheartedly)
                      We gotta call the cops, Jake.

      Jake nods absently, continues toward the barn:

                                        JAKE
                      We ll call them from the highway.  
                        Anonymously.


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  27.

        CONTINUED:2626


        And as Jake begins loading the pelts into his trunk, Lou 
        takes a look around, sighs in resignation, dutifully 
        starts to help his boss --

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:


      I/E. JAKE S CAR (MOVING) - DAY2727

        God s eye view of Jake s car weaving through the thick 
        woods where the Jamesons lived, slowly navigating the 
      twin ruts that pass for roads in this wilderness...

      TIME CUT TO: driving along the highway, the sterile 
        pavement and crowded multilane highways almost 
          anachronistic after spending so much time in the wild.

      TIME CUT TO: the sun sinks into the sky as Jake s car 
        enters the urban jungle of the city, a wilderness unlike 
        any other.



        Jake s car careens down the alley, pulls to stop in front 
      of Fell Furs --

      He bursts excitedly from the car, 

                                        JAKE
                                (directed at a drug addict)
                      ***TBD by Dario Argento, on the day***

        followed by Lou, as they are greeted by the foreseen 
        CHINESE FACTORY EMPLOYEES, who gather around to see what 
        all the fuss is about:

      Jake pops the trunk as the factory employees lean in for 
        a closer look:

        ANGLE: INSIDE THE TRUNK -- the pelts look even more 
        beautiful all bunched together like this; the trunk 
        appears to be a pool of the softest fur imaginable, just 
        beckoning us to jump inside and drown in bliss, until --

        REVEAL: one of the female Chinese employees, Sue-Chin Yao 
        (70s), the factory s ancient seamstress, points at the 
        trunk, backs away knowingly suspicious -- 

        The impression made on the Chinese employees is exactly 
        opposite to that of Jake and Lou. 

      SEEN IN FRENETIC SNIPPETS:

                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  28.

        CONTINUED:2828


        The Chinese employees speak frantically.

        Point nervously at the trunk.

      Step away from the vehicle.

        Follow Sue-Chin Yao back inside the factory --

      BACK TO SCENE: as Lou turns to Jake, rattled --

                                        LOU
                      What s gotten them, boss...?

        But Jake only shrugs -- been in this business too long, 
      seen it all and then some -- couldn t care less about 
        what s bothering a few employees, pats Lou on the back:

                                        JAKE
                      Probably had some bad fuckin  eggrolls 
                      for lunch, Lou -- who gives a fuck -- ?

        Lou turns to Jake -- is comforted by his boss  confident 
        smile and racist ways:

                                        LOU
                      Yeah, yeah... you re probably right.

                                        JAKE
                      I know I m right -- just like I know we 
                      got a fortune stuffed inside the trunk 
                      of my car.

        Lou smiles -- loves Jake s old school style -- is 
        reinvigorated, turns to Sergio, the only remaining 
        employee and enjoys resuming his role as  enforcer: 

                                        LOU
                      You heard the Boss -- let s get  em 
                      inside -- now -- !

        And as Sergio begins hauling the pelts from the back of 
        Jake s trunk into the factory, Lou turns to his boss, 
        smiles proudly:

                                        LOU (CONT D)
                      You were right, Jake: she s gonna be a 
                      beauty.

      Jake nods -- still can t quite believe his good fortune:





                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  29.

        CONTINUED:2828


                                        JAKE
                      By next week, we ll have one of the 
                      world s most extraordinary fur coats.  
                      After Sirio, sky s the limit.

        Lou nods in agreement, looks away -- almost hates to 
        remind him:

                                        LOU
                      You need the right model, though.  
                      Somebody worthy of the coat -- otherwise 
                      it s all for nothing.

        But Jake is one step ahead of him:

                                        JAKE
                      I already got somebody in mind.

        Lou looks up, is almost frightened by the intensity of 
        Jake s stare as he gazes out into the dusky city streets 
        beyond the alley:

        His obsession for Shanna and the lengths he s willing to 
      go absolutely stunning.

        And as the POUNDING MUSIC OF THE STRIP CLUB overlaps --

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



      Jake approaches Mother Mayter s cabin, smiles with relief 
      when the old woman walks out onto her front porch, 
        silhouetted by the glowing warmth from inside:

                                        JAKE
                                (laying it on thick)
                      Hello there, ma am.  You must be Mother 
                      Mayter.

        The dim form of Mother Mayter continues to hobble forward 
      as Jake does his best to schmooze her...

                                        JAKE (CONT D)
                              (a smarmy smile)
                      My name s Jake Feldman.  I, uh, I 
                      brought you a bottle of moonshine.  I 
                      just wanted to ask you a few questions.

        ANGLE: MOTHER MAYTER S FRONT PORCH -- as the old woman 
        steps forward into a shaft of light --

      BACK TO SCENE: Jake flinches at the sight of her --

        ANGLE: MOTHER MAYTER -- she pulls her old, ratty coat 
      more tightly around her wrinkled body.

        She looks toward the surrounding woods, sniffs at the air 
      -- as if checking for a particular scent -- then starts 
      back inside her decrepit cabin:

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                      Come.  I ve been expecting you.

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



      Jake sprints into the distance of the clearing as Mother 
        Mayter barrels from her cabin, something dreadful about 
        her silhouette --

      If there was really such a thing as witches, this is 
        exactly what they d look like:

        Mother Mayter continues to ROAR IN AN UNFAMILIAR LANGUAGE 
      -- it sounds like some DEAD LANGUAGE; 


                                                                          (CONTINUED)                                                                       "Pelts"  42.

        CONTINUED:4141


      some unholy combination of Latin or Aramaic -- her voice 
        now husky and strong and alien:

                                        MOTHER MAYTER
                                (screaming, in a dead, 
                                unknown language)
                        ...MBLEMEOMOLKM.... MDELFJJAO... 
                          D0EYR...0OUUSDDFFJAAYEOH...
                              (in English)
                      They have not had their final say -- !  
                      They are not finished with you yet --

        And as MOTHER MAYTER S TERRIBLE SCREAMS seem to fill the 
        entire world around us, echoing throughout every dark 
        crevice of the dark woods --

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



        Mother Mayter s ENIGMATIC RAMBLINGS mingle with the 
        sounds of the city as Jake s car traverses the alley 
        toward Fell Furs beneath the harsh glare of early morning 
        sunlight:

      He looks like the living dead, dark bags beneath his eyes 
      from having driven all night, way too many empty 
        styrofoam cups of coffee on the seat beside him --



      Jake bursts from the factory with the fur coat in an 
        opaque plastic jacket bag, hurries to his car --

                                                                        HARD CUT TO:



      Jake parks, rushes into Shanna s converted warehouse --


