
      The sun shines brightly over the upper-middle class houses 
      with their well-manicured lawns lining the big broad streets.  
      A HOUSEWIFE unloads groceries from the back of her SUV in one 
      of the driveways.  A few CHILDREN run across one of the 
      lawns, screaming with delight as they chase after one another 
      with toy guns.

      A POSTMAN walks past the children onto a cul-de-sac, stopping 
      at the mailboxes, some made of stone, others made of brick, 
      that sit even with the curb in front of each house, 
      delivering the mail.  He makes it to the end of the cul-de-
      sac and walks past a one-story limestone house with a 
      Realtor's sign in the yard, the word "sold" stenciled across 
      it, without stopping.

      The Postman stops at the next house on the circle and then 
      moves to the next house where the circle ends and the street 
      straightens out again.  It is a big two-story, red-brick 
      house with white trim, though most of the front of the house 
      is hidden behind heavy overhanging trees and hedges.  The 
      Postman puts the mail in the red-brick mailbox and walks off 
      down the street.  There is the faint sound of classical music 
      coming from somewhere inside the house.


      Harold comes out of the front door and walks down his 
      driveway to his mailbox.  Out on the street a big truck, with 
      "Green Family Movers Inc" written on the side, drives slowly 
      past him.  He watches the truck drive down to the last house 
      in the middle of the cul-de-sac where an attractive couple, 
      both in their early thirties, CELIA FULLER and DAVID FULLER, 
      wait in the drive-way, waving at the driver.

      David watches the truck, but Celia sees Harold looking at 
      them.  She smiles and waves at him.  A little startled, 
      Harold gives a brisk wave and then quickly takes his mail and 
      walks back toward his house.


      The sun is down.  The mover's truck is gone, and only David's 
      car with California plates sits in the driveway.  All the 
      lights in the house are on.


      David's car turns onto the cul-de-sac and drives toward their 
      house.  Right as they are nearing Harold's house the Fuller s 
      car suddenly veers to the left and smashes into Harold's red-
      brick mailbox with a huge crash, and stops with one wheel on 
      his lawn.                                                                      "Family"  7.




      David climbs out.  Celia gets out as David walks to the front 
      of the Fuller s car.  She looks around at the surrounding 
      houses, but there are no lights on at any of them.

                                  CELIA
                    That had to wake someone up.

      David checks the damage.  The front fender of the Fuller s 
      car is a little dented, but nothing major.  The mailbox 
      however is in ruins.  It is smashed sideways though still 
      somewhat standing at its base, red bricks and pieces of red 
      brick lay everywhere on the ground.  Celia comes around to 
      David's side and joins him at the front of the Fuller s car.  
      She looks to Harold's house, but all the lights are off.

                                  CELIA (CONT'D)
                    I can't believe no one heard that.

                                  DAVID
                    What should we do?

                                  CELIA
                          (starts to walk toward the 
                            house)
                    Come on.

                                  DAVID
                    Wait, I should get my insurance 
                    card.

      She walks toward the house as David goes back to the car.  
      She reaches the porch and rings the doorbell.

                                  DAVID (O.S.) (CONT'D)
                    Are they home?





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                      "Family"  8.

      CONTINUED:1313


                                  CELIA
                          (calls to him)
                    I don't know.

      She rings the doorbell again, then knocks on the door.  No 
      one answers, and no lights come on.  She walks off down the 
      driveway where David is walking toward her, carrying paper 
      and a pen.

                                  DAVID
                    No one answered?

      She shakes her head no and shrugs.

                                  DAVID (CONT'D)
                    I guess I'll just leave a note.

      He walks to the door, and starts to write on the paper.  
      Celia waits for him in the driveway.  She hears something 
      rustling in the bushes at the side of the house.  She looks 
      toward the sound, but doesn't see anything.

                                  CELIA
                          (a little scared)
                    David?

      He comes walking down the driveway.

                                  DAVID
                    I left a note with our address on 
                    it.  I suppose it shouldn't be too 
                    hard to get in touch with us.

      They walk back to the Fuller s car.

                                  CELIA
                    I hope they're not too upset about 
                    this.

                                  DAVID
                    Well, it's a hell of a way to meet 
                    your new neighbors.  But I wouldn't 
                    worry too much about it. We're 
                    insured and besides, it's just a 
                    mailbox.

      They both get back into the Fuller s car.  David backs up and 
      then drives the short distance to his own driveway.

      On the side of the house, Harold stands in the shadows, 
      watching them get out of their car and go into their house.  




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                      "Family"  9.

      CONTINUED:1313

      He steps quietly across the lawn, watching their house.  He 
      reaches the smashed mailbox and looks at it.

      On the ground amidst all those red brick pieces are a few 
      tiny pieces of white bone.  He toes at them with his shoe 
      then sticks his hand into the half standing base of the 
      mailbox and pulls out a piece of a broken human skull.  He 
      looks from the piece of skull to their house.

                                                              CUT TO:


      The sun is just coming up.  A car drives down the cul-de-sac, 
      stopping in front of each house as the DRIVER throws a paper 
      into each driveway.  It stops in front of Harold's house and 
      the driver throws a paper into the driveway, and then drives 
      off.  The mailbox is completely repaired, and there are 
      hardly any traces of the accident except for a little red 
      dust here and there on the ground.


      The sun is fully up now.  Kids play kick ball up toward the 
      front of the street.  David and Celia walk up their driveway 
      toward Harold's house.  David looks hung-over, his eyes a 
      little bloodshot.  He sees the mailbox first.

                                  DAVID
                          (surprised)
                    Look at that.

      Celia sees it.  They look at each other.

                                  CELIA
                    That's weird.

                                  DAVID
                    Maybe the guy's a bricklayer or 
                      something.


      David and Celia reach the porch.

                                  DAVID
                          (looking around)
                    Well, he must have got the note I 
                    left.  It's not here.

      David knocks loudly on the door.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                    "Family"  10.

      CONTINUED:1616


                                  CELIA
                          (smirks)
                    Maybe we just dreamed the whole 
                    thing.

      David rolls his eyes at her.  After a moment the door opens 
      to reveal Harold.  He looks at them with a quizzical 
      expression.

                                  HAROLD
                    Can I help you?

                                  DAVID
                    Hey, I'm David Fuller and this is 
                    my wife Celia.  Unfortunately we're 
                    the ones that hit your mailbox last 
                    night.

      Harold smiles and puts out his hand to David.

                                  HAROLD
                    Harold Thompson.

      They shake hands.  Harold opens the door wider.

                                  HAROLD (CONT'D)
                    Would you like to come in?  I've 
                    got some fresh coffee brewing.


      Harold s car pulls into the half-full parking lot and parks 
      near the front of the mall, backing into the space.


      Harold sits in his parked car, watching the entrance.  An OLD 
      WOMAN WITH SILVER HAIR comes out of the store, walking slowly 
      with a severe limp.  A BAG-BOY follows behind her, pushing a 
      cart loaded with several full grocery bags.  The woman limps 
      to one of the handicap spots near the front of the store and 
      unlocks the trunk of a beaten up old Buick.


      The old Buick drives down the street and pulls into a cracked 
      driveway to the side of an old faded white frame house.

      About a block down, Harold's car pulls over to the side of 
      the road.  He watches the old woman through his windshield as 
      she takes out one of the bags from the trunk, and then limps 
      toward her house, leaving the trunk open.  Harold grabs his 
      briefcase and gets out of his car.


      Harold walks down the sidewalk toward the old woman's house.  
      He casually looks around the street and sees that it is 
      empty.  He approaches her house and looks at the number 
      stenciled on the mailbox: 1501.  He sees the woman limping 
      back down the small driveway to her car.  Back behind her he 
      can see an open door on the side of the house.

                                  HAROLD
                    Excuse me, ma'm.  Is this 1501 
                    Major Drive?

      The old woman looks at him, a little startled.

                                  OLD WOMAN
                    Yes it is.

      Harold walks up to the edge of the driveway and stops.

                                  HAROLD
                    Are you Mrs. Helen Chase?

      The old woman shakes her head no.

                                  HAROLD (CONT'D)
                          (with a confused frown)
                    But this is 1501 Major Drive?

      The old woman nods.  Harold shakes his head and sighs.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                    "Family"  22.

      CONTINUED:3131


                                  HAROLD (CONT'D)
                    This is the second time my office 
                    has given me the wrong address.

      The old woman limps toward the open truck of the car.

                                  HAROLD (CONT'D)
                          (looks at his watch)
                    I had a noon appointment with Mrs. 
                    Chase to go over her insurance 
                    policy.

                                  OLD WOMAN
                    Sorry, I don't know any Mrs. Chase.

      The old woman reaches the trunk.

                                  HAROLD
                    Well, sorry to bother you.  You 
                    have yourself a nice day.

                                  OLD WOMAN
                    You too.

      Harold starts to turn, but sees her struggling with one of 
      the grocery bags.

                                  HAROLD
                    Ma'm, can I help you with those?

                                  OLD WOMAN
                    Oh, I'll manage.

                                  HAROLD
                    Are you sure?  They look kind of 
                    heavy.

      The old woman looks unsure, but looks at Harold in his nice 
      suit and tie, and reconsiders.

                                  OLD WOMAN
                    If you're sure it's no bother.

                                  HAROLD
                          (smiles)
                    No bother at all if you don't mind 
                    carrying my briefcase for me.  It's 
                    pretty light.

                                  OLD WOMAN
                          (smiles)
                    It's a deal.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                    "Family"  23.

      CONTINUED:3131


      He walks up to the trunk, hands her his briefcase, and then 
      gathers all the bags into his arms.  The old woman limps up 
      the driveway, carrying the briefcase, as Harold shuts the 
      trunk with his elbow and follows after her with the grocery 
      bags.

      The old woman makes her way carefully up the few steps of the 
      porch to the side of the house.  Behind her, Harold looks 
      around, sees no one, and then follows her up the steps.  He 
      follows her inside the door, shifts the bags into one arm, 
      and shuts the door quietly behind him.


      Harold's car drives down the street to his house where the 
      garage door is opening.  Across the cul-de-sac all the lights 
      at the Fullers' house are on.  Harold's car pulls into the 
      garage and the door starts to close.


      The sun shines brightly overhead as the birds chirp merrily 
      from the trees.


      Harold opens his front door and sees Celia walking away.

                                  HAROLD
                          (calls from the door)
                    Celia?

      She turns and sees him.  She smiles and walks toward him.

                                  CELIA
                    I didn't think you were home.

                                  HAROLD
                    I was doing some cleaning in the 
                    basement, had the radio on too 
                    loud.

      She walks up to the porch and stops.

                                  CELIA
                    I thought I heard music.  I just 
                    came over to see if you'd like to 
                    join us for dinner Friday night.

                                  HAROLD
                          (smiles)
                    That would be lovely.

                                  JANE (O.S.)
                          (from behind him)
                    Harold!?




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                    "Family"  29.

      CONTINUED:3838


                                  CELIA
                    How about around seven?

                                  JANE (O.S.)
                          (yells again)
                    Who's at the door!?  Is that her!?

      Harold looks annoyed, but quickly covers it with a big smile.

                                  HAROLD
                    Sounds good.  I'll see you then.

                                  CELIA
                          (smiles)
                    Okay, see you then.

      Celia turns and walks off.  Harold watches her until she gets 
      nearly to the driveway, then turns and shuts the door.


      The front door opens and Harold walks out onto the porch.  He 
      turns to look at David and Celia, who stand in the doorway.

                                  HAROLD
                    Thank you so much for dinner.  I 
                    had a wonderful time.

                                  DAVID
                    Us too.

                                  HAROLD
                    Well, good-night.

      David and Celia wave as Harold starts to walk off.

                                  DAVID
                    Walk safe.

      Harold laughs and waves as he walks off.  David and Celia go 
      inside the house, and shut the door behind them.  The porch-
      light goes out.  Harold walks past the Fuller s car to the 
      end of their driveway, turns to see their darkened porch, 
      looks around, and then walks quickly toward the house next 
      door.  He walks across the neighbor's lawn to the side of 
      David and Celia's house and opens the wooden gate there.                                                                    "Family"  37.




      Harold walks quietly across the backyard to where a window is 
      lit.  He sneaks up to the window and looks in, watching from 
      the darkness.  He sees Celia and David in their bedroom.  
      Celia is taking off her clothes as David talks to her.  They 
      look like they are fighting though Harold can't hear what 
      they are saying.


      Harold sits in his car in front of the school.  TEENAGERS 
      pour out of the school.  Harold watches as a few GIRLS walk 
      toward him, talking and giggling among themselves.  As they 
      get closer, one of the girls, a pretty BLONDE, stops talking 
      to her fiends and looks right at Harold.

                                  BLONDE GIRL
                          (seductively)
                    I could be your daughter.  You 
                    could come into my room late at 
                    night and...

      Harold looks away from her in disgust.  He looks at another 
      GIRL WITH DYED BLACK HAIR, who is standing alone by the steps 
      of the school, lighting a cigarette.  She looks over at him.

                                  BLACK HAIR GIRL
                    I do a lot of drugs and I fuck 
                    anything that moves, but you could 
                    save me.  I need a real father 
                    to...

      The fantasy is interrupted as a TEENAGE BOY walks up to the 
      girl and they kiss.  Harold frowns and looks away.  Behind 
      the teenage couple, a PLAIN GIRL come down the steps.  She 
      walks down the pathway toward Harold, looking right at him.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                    "Family"  41.

      CONTINUED:4848


                                  PLAIN GIRL
                    No one will miss me.  I hate my 
                    life.  I'd be better off with you.

      Harold watches as she walks past his car and crosses the 
      street.  She turns and looks at him.

                                  PLAIN GIRL (CONT'D)
                    Come take me.  I won't put up much 
                    of a fight.

      She walks off toward one of the residential streets across 
      from the school.  Harold starts his engine.


      Harold drives slowly down the street.  Up ahead the Plain 
      Girl walks down the sidewalk.


      Harold gets out of the car.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                    "Family"  42.

      CONTINUED:5252


                                  HOUSEWIFE
                          (freaking out)
                    Are you sure you should get up?  
                    I'm so sorry.  I didn't see you.  
                    It's those damn hedges.  I keep 
                    telling my husband to trim them.  I 
                    have insurance.

      Harold looks at her, dazed.

                                  HOUSEWIFE (CONT'D)
                    That cut looks bad.  Should I call 
                    an ambulance?  I should call an 
                      ambulance.  You need an ambulance.

                                  HAROLD
                          (steadying himself)
                    No.  I think I'm alright.

                                  HOUSEWIFE
                    I have insurance.  It's those damn 
                    hedges.  I keep...

      The Housewife keeps rambling on as Harold looks around.  
      There are a few GAWKERS standing over on the sidewalk.  He 
      sees the Plain Girl among them.  She looks right at him.

                                  PLAIN GIRL
                    It would have been beautiful, but 
                    it just wasn't meant to be.


      Harold's car turns onto the cul-de-sac.


      The sun is going down.  Harold walks to his mailbox.  He 
      looks over at the Fuller house and sees that the police car 
      is gone.  Their driveway is empty, though there are a few 
      lights on inside the house.  Harold pretends to check his 
      mailbox, though it is empty.  He looks around, sees no one, 
      and then starts to walk toward their house.


      Celia opens the door to see Harold standing on the porch.  
      Celia looks like she has been crying.

                                  HAROLD
                    I just came over to see if 
                      everything was alright.  I saw the 
                    police car earlier and...

      Celia starts to cry.

                                  CELIA
                    David's disappeared.


      Harold walks toward the Fuller house.


      Celia, looking fresh and clean in a pair of jeans and a t-
      shirt, rings the doorbell.  After a moment, Harold opens the 
      door with a big smile on his face.

