
      CLAIRE RANDALL (27) standing on a cobblestoned street in a 
      small village in post-war Scotland.  Dressed in modest warm 
      clothes, her forever unruly curls cascading over her features 
      in the brisk wind, she stares at a SHOP window filled with 
      household goods:  embroidered tea cloths and cozies, pitchers 
      and glasses, a stack of pie tins, and a set of three VASES.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      2.

      CONTINUED:

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    Strange, the things you remember; 
                    the single images and feelings that 
                    stay with you down through the 
                    years.  Like looking at a shop 
                    window with the sudden realization 
                    that you ve never owned a vase in 
                    your entire life.  That you ve 
                    never lived in any one place long 
                    enough to justify having such a 
                    thing.  And how at that moment, you 
                    want nothing so much in all the 
                    world as to have a vase of your 
                    very own.  

      She stares at the blue patterned vase in the window.  The 
      shop is CLOSED.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    Even now I can recall every detail 
                    of standing outside that shop in 
                    Scotland.  

      Claire finally wraps her coat tighter around her body and 
      walks down the street.  THUNDER ROLLS somewhere in the 
      distance.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    It was a Wednesday afternoon, 
                    eleven months after the end of the 
                    war.   


      GUNSHOTS are heard as Claire steps outside the tent with 
      cheeks as grey as the overcast sky, eyes red-rimmed and 
      glassy.  Exhaustion etched into every inch of her face.  The 
      sound of random gunfire continues as she stands in her blood-
      spattered clothes outside the tent for a moment, numbly 
      trying to understand what she sees o.c.

      NEW ANGLE

      The nurses are kissing soldiers, soldiers are hugging 
      soldiers and a few of them are FIRING WILDLY into the air 
      with automatic weapons.  Someone has scrounged up bottles of 
      WINE and CHAMPAGNE and people are spraying them over one 
      another and drinking greedily.  

      Another NURSE happens by, her arms draped around a soldier 
      and a bottle in her hand.





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      4.

      CONTINUED:

                                  NURSE
                    Claire!  Did you hear?  It s over!  
                    It s really, finally over!

      She hands Claire the bottle.  Claire takes a long drink, but 
      she s too tired and strung out to do anything else but stare 
      at the revelers.  Hold on her exhausted, glassy-eyed face for 
      a moment...


      Mountains crowd the frame like massive shoulders as an open-
      topped CAR bounces and careens down the narrow road.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    We were in Scotland on our second 
                      honeymoon.  Or at least that s what 
                    Frank called it.  A way to 
                    celebrate the end of the war years 
                    and begin our lives anew.  But it 
                    was more than that. 


      As evening falls, the Randall car is parked outside the 
      modest inn.  Claire makes her way up the path while her 
      husband FRANK RANDALL (30 s) carries in the luggage.  

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    We didn t discuss it, but I think 
                    we both felt a holiday would serve 
                    as a convenient masquerade for the 
                    real business of getting to know 
                    the people we had become after six 
                    years apart.  

      Frank stops on the threshold, peers at the sill.

                                  FRANK
                    Now, what do you suppose that is?

      Claire moves for a closer look.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Good Lord -- it s blood!

                                  FRANK
                    Are you sure?

                                  CLAIRE
                    I should think I know the look of 
                    blood by now...



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      5.

      CONTINUED:

                                  FRANK
                          (peers at neighboring 
                            houses)
                    There s a stain just like it on the 
                    house next door.  And the next.  We 
                    seem to be surrounded by homes 
                    marked with blood.

      They look about for a moment at the darkened door sills.  The 
      street is empty at the moment, and the quiet feels unnatural, 
      disturbing.  Claire finally breaks the tension --

                                  CLAIRE
                          (light)
                    Perhaps Pharaoh has refused Moses 
                    and the spirit of death will travel 
                    the streets of Inverness this night 
                    sparing only those who mark their 
                    doors with lamb s blood.

                                  FRANK
                    You may be closer than you think.  
                    This could well be part of a 
                      sacrificial ritual -- but pagan 
                    rather than Hebrew.  

                                  CLAIRE
                    I had no idea Inverness was such a 
                    hotbed of contemporary paganism.

                                  FRANK
                    My dear, I think you ll find 
                    there s no place on earth with more 
                    magic and superstition mixed into 
                    its daily life than the Scottish 
                      Highlands.  

      Frank grins and OPENS the door and Claire gingerly steps over 
      the stain before entering the inn. 

      LINGER a moment on the blood...


      The next day.  Claire s curls -- unruly at the best of times -
      - are blown into utter chaos by the wind, as Frank drives.  
      She s smiling, happy.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    11.

      CONTINUED:

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    Frank s passion for history was 
                    another reason for choosing the 
                      Highlands.

      Frank points out a passing ROCK FORMATION shaped like a 
      rooster s tail.

                                  FRANK
                      Cocknammon Rock.  During the 17th 
                    and 18th centuries, you d have 
                    often found a British army patrol 
                    lying there in wait for Scottish 
                    brigands or rebels.  You see how 
                    the position commands the high 
                    ground in every direction?

      Claire tries to look interested.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    Not that I minded.  I was raised by 
                    my uncle after the death of my 
                    parents.  


      The dig is somewhere in the desert, with a TEAM of BRITISH 
      and NATIVE WORKERS carefully uncovering the remains of an 
      ancient building.  YOUNG CLAIRE (11), brings her UNCLE LAMB 
      (40 s) a KIT containing several specialized BRUSHES.  

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    Uncle Lamb was an archeologist, so 
                    I d spent the balance of my 
                    formative years traipsing through 
                    dusty ruins and various excavations 
                      throughout the world.  

      Uncle Lamb uses the brushes to begin whisking away dirt from 
      the delicate structure they re uncovering.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    I d learned to dig latrines and 
                    boil water, and to do a number of 
                    other things not suitable for a 
                    young lady of gentle birth.

      Young Claire then produces and lights a cigarette with 
      aplomb, before deftly handing it to her uncle, who nods his 
      thanks absently and takes a deep, grateful drag.                                                                                    12.



      The Randall car is parked outside the picturesque ruins of a 
      medieval SCOTTISH CASTLE.  Frank walks the narrow ledge 
      nearby, making notes in a small journal, while Claire makes 
      her own way along the same grounds, examining the local flora 
      -- again they re in the same location, but in different 
      places.  The structure is abandoned, with weeds and grasses 
      encroaching on what were once neatly kept grounds.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    While I was with the army, Frank 
                    had served in London -- MI6, 
                      overseeing spies, running covert 
                      operations, that sort of thing. 
                          (beat)
                    In six years, we d seen each other 
                    a grand total of ten days.

                                  FRANK
                    From what I ve been able to gather, 
                    Castle Leoch was the ancestral home 
                    of the MacKenzie clan until midway 
                    through the nineteenth century...


      Afternoon.  The manse of the Vicar is over a century old and 
      sits close to his church.  DARK CLOUDS are settling in on the 
      horizon, a STORM appears to be on the way.


      Claire walks along the street as the weather turns nasty and 
      an icy wind blows her hair into shambles.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    I never, for an instant, considered 
                    leaving Frank.  I loved him still 
                    and I knew he loved me.





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    21.

      CONTINUED:

      She stops in front of a SHOP WINDOW and we realize that we ve 
      returned to that moment of Claire standing in front of that 
      shop window staring at the VASES.  

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    If the second world war had taught 
                    me anything, it was the value of 
                      steadfastness in the face of 
                    hardship.


      Claire bundles herself more tightly against the wind and 
      walks away from the shop window.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    I would play the cards in my hand.  


      Frank is coming up the street toward the B&B as the first 
      drops of RAIN begin to fall.  He pulls his lapels tighter 
      about him and quickens his step, but the cobblestones are now 
      slick and treacherous.  He nearly falls at one point, has to 
      grab a lamp post to keep his footing, then freezes in place, 
      staring into the gloom at --



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    22.

      CONTINUED:

      A FIGURE

      In the distance, standing at the edge of the garden of the 
      B&B by the fence.  His features are indistinct, a combination 
      of the distance and the gloom of night, but Frank can tell 
      he s looking up at Claire, who can clearly be seen in the 
      upper window, struggling with her hair in the mirror.  

      Frank strides across the street to confront the figure.  As 
      he approaches, he can make out more details:  tall, wearing a 
      loose shirt, folded plaid over his shoulder, kilt and 
      sporran.

                                  FRANK
                    Can I help you?  I say, you there -- 
                    can I help you with something?

      No response.  The rain is coming down in sheets as Frank 
      reaches out for the man -- who abruptly turns and brushes 
      past Frank and into the night.  Startled, Frank looks around -
      - where d he go?  How d he disappear so quickly?  Suddenly 
      there s a CRASH of LIGHTNING NEARBY and the POWER GOES OUT IN 
      THE VILLAGE.


      The MISTY flat-topped green hill abounds with natural rocks 
      and crags that jut out here and there, but the dominant 
      feature is artificial:  a circle of STANDING STONES smaller 
      than their more famous cousins on the Salisbury Plain, but 
      which still are more than twice a man s height.  The henge is 
      made of giant rocks flecked with mica, which are obviously 
      not part of the area s natural environment.

      Claire and Frank, bundled against the chill are easing 
      themselves into a hidden vantage point where they can observe 
      the festivities about to take place among the stones in the 
      slowly gathering light of dawn which is just starting to 
      pierce the low-lying night mist.

                                  FRANK
                    ... the Reverend didn t know much 
                    of the real history of the site 
                    beyond the local folklore, which 
                    maintains that the stones were 
                    carried here from Africa by a race 
                    of Celtic giants.

      Claire is looking around, trying to be tolerably pleasant at 
      this hour. 

                                  CLAIRE
                          (dry)
                    I wasn t aware the Celts made a lot 
                    of visits to Africa.

                                  FRANK
                    Only the giant ones, it would seem.    
                    In any case, the true origin of the 
                    stones is lost to antiquity as well 
                    as their original purpose.

      Claire sees something o.c.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Is that Inverness?

      Frank follows her gaze -- the twinkling LIGHTS of the city 
      are glowing in the misty western horizon.  A few CARS and 
      TRUCK HEADLIGHTS move along the roads, a TRAIN WHISTLES in 
      the distance, even the blinking lights of an AIRCRAFT groping 
      toward an unseen landing strip in the fog, all testify to the 
      presence of a modern city just beginning to stir. 




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    28.

      CONTINUED:

                                  FRANK
                    I should think so, yes.  
                          (sees something else)
                    Oh!  We should take cover.

      He and Claire bustle into the shadows, just as --

      THE CELEBRANTS

      15 WOMEN, ranging in age from late teens to sixties, appear 
      dressed in crude WHITE SHEETS.  Silently, they walk in a line 
      through the stones, their LEADER guiding the way.

                                  CLAIRE
                          (sotto)
                    Is that... Mrs. Graham?

      They peer closer and sure enough, it is the housekeeper.

                                  FRANK
                          (delighted)
                    The Vicar s housekeeper is a witch.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Druid, remember?  

      Claire giggles softly and they turn their attention back to 
      the ritual.  At a signal from Mrs. Graham, the women take 
      their places in the shadows of the stones, completely 
        disappearing from view for the moment.

      THE SUN

      Begins to rise above the distant mountains, sending a SHAFT 
      of LIGHT across the terrain.

      IN THE CIRCLE OF STONES

      The SHAFT of light perfectly bisects the space between two of 
      the massive stones, cutting directly across the diameter of 
      the circle and straight into the face of a WOMAN standing 
      there waiting in the dark.  

      Her ENORMOUS distorted SHADOW is cast back onto another 
      plinth, and as she slowly raises her arms, the image on the 
      sloping stone face seems to reach out with clawed hands in an 
      image both strange and threatening.

      The rest of the women form lines within the circle and begin 
      to DANCE.  Their expressions are blank, still -- almost as if 
      they were in some kind of trance.  




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    29.

      CONTINUED: (2)

      As Claire and Frank watch in fascination, the women move in 
      and out of geometric formations as the sun continues to rise 
      above the distant hills. 

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    They should have been ridiculous, 
                    and perhaps they were.  A 
                      collection of women in bedsheets, 
                    many of them stout and far from 
                    agile, parading in circles on top 
                    of a hill.  
                          (beat)
                    But the hairs on the back of my 
                    neck prickled at the sight... and 
                    some small voice inside warned me I 
                    wasn t supposed to be here... that 
                    I was an unwelcome voyeur to 
                    something ancient and powerful.

      Claire s right, there is something unsettling about the 
      ceremony, something that seems to touch onto deeper chords of 
      memory and prehistory than simple village tradition.  The 
      shadows seem filled with whispers, the night air alive with 
      ancient sprites -- something old and powerful being venerated 
      and awakened in these hills. 

      Suddenly she begins to hear a HUM in the air.  Can t make out 
      what direction it s coming from.

                                  CLAIRE
                          (sotto)
                    You hear that?

                                  FRANK
                    Hmm...?

      But then, the ceremony ends and the hum FADES AWAY.  The 
      single woman s shadow on the stone finally reduced to 
      something more familiar and mortal.  The sun s light now 
      strikes the great SPLIT STONE on the opposite side of the 
      henge.  The dancers now all join the woman and follow her in 
      a careful line, walking though the cleft in the split stone 
      and out down the hillside.  

                                  FRANK (cont d)
                      Fascinating.

      MOMENTS LATER

      Frank and Claire are down amid the stones themselves, the 
      women now gone.  Frank is taking notes in his journal, 
      sketching the stones, making diagrams, etc.  



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    30.

      CONTINUED: (3)

      Claire, meanwhile, is more interested in the various PLANTS 
      growing around the stones.  One in particular catches her 
      attention:  a VINE growing around the base of a stone with 
      deep blue flowers and an orange center.  

      She s starting to bend down to examine it closer when Frank 
      suddenly grabs her arm and pulls her quickly into hiding 
      behind a stone.  Her question is immediately silenced by his 
      finger to her lips and she waits breathless for a moment 
      before peering around the corner to see --

      -- a WOMAN has returned to the henge.  Now back in her street 
      clothes and looking much more like the housewife than druid,  
      celebrant, she walks the grounds for a moment looking for 
      something.  Finally, she locates a lost HAIR CLIP in the 
      grass.  Rather than make her way back down the path, however, 
      she decides to sit down and contemplate the beauty of the 
      area in the quiet morning sun.

      Frank and Claire manage to creep away without getting her 
      attention and make their way back down the hill unobserved.  
      The woman stays on the hill, bathed in sunlight.


      THE BLUE-FLOWERED PLANT is tucked next to the base of a huge 
      standing stone.  Claire s hand reaches down to examine it.  
      In the full light of day, the standing stones are far less 
      menacing and she s relaxed as she takes some clippings from 
      the vine and folds them carefully in a handkerchief.  

      Gradually, she becomes aware of that SAME HUMMING, like what 
      a beehive might produce.  Claire looks around, curiously.  
      After a few seconds, she zeroes in on the source, which is 
      not a hive, but actually the largest of the stones, the one 
      with a huge SPLIT running down the middle.  Standing right 
      next to the stone, the humming is loud and Claire puts a hand 
      out to touch the smooth surface --

      -- the stone SCREAMS.  Claire backpedals, falls down.  The 
      scream was unnatural, otherworldly.  The world begins to 
      vibrate in Claire s perception, as her senses are suddenly 
      aware of sound and movement not normally perceived in the 
      natural world.  All around her, SOUNDS of BATTLE emanate from 
      the other stones on the hilltop: screaming men, musketry, 
      terrified horses, the clang of metal weapons.

      Claire staggers to her feet, shaking her head in a vain 
      attempt to clear it, as the world starts to spin and tilt in 
      her mind.  The cacophony grows more intense and her vision 
      blurs as Claire stumbles forward, trying to find escape in 
      any direction.  Her uncertain footsteps take her to the cleft 
      stone and she reaches out with a hand once more --






                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    32.

      CONTINUED:

      DARKNESS SHOT THROUGH WITH BOLTS OF LIGHT

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    Once, traveling at night, I fell 
                    asleep in the passenger seat of a 
                    moving car, lulled by the noise and 
                    motion into an illusion of serene 
                      weightlessness.  Then the driver 
                    took a bridge too fast and lost 
                    control, and I woke from my 
                    floating dream looking into the 
                    glare of oncoming headlights and 
                    the sickening sensation of falling 
                    at high speed.  That is as close as 
                    I can come to describing what I 
                      experienced... but it falls 
                    woefully short.

      The world is bursting with white noise and dark light, then --

      Quiet.


      Claire opens her eyes.  She s still lying at the foot of the 
      cleft stone.  The sun still in the sky.  She sits up and 
      immediately notices that the stones have ceased screaming.  
      But the noise of battle still travels through the air as 
      Claire gets to her feet, in a daze.  Not sure what s going 
      on, but sure that she wants to get away from these stones, 
      Claire scrambles away --

      -- SLIPS and falls, ends up sliding and scrambling down the 
      hill.


      Claire finally comes to a stop in a small GROVE of TREES.  
      She sits there for a moment at the base of a tree, trying to 
      gather her wits.  A commotion from o.c. causes her to look up 
      and see THREE MEN wearing kilts, running across a clearing in 
      the distance.  The POP-POP-POP of gunshots echo across the 
      field just before SIX REDCOAT SOLDIERS, armed with MUSKETS, 
      come running in hot pursuit of the Scots.

      Claire gets a little blearily to her feet.  Rubs her head and 
      neck, checking for some kind of injury.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    When suddenly confronted with the 
                      impossible, the rational mind will 
                    grope in all directions, searching 
                    for logical explanations.  
                                  (MORE)

                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    33.

      CONTINUED:
                                  CLAIRE (V.O.) (cont'd)
                    I, myself, came to the quite 
                      reasonable conclusion that I had 
                    stumbled onto the set of a cinema 
                    company filming a costume drama of 
                    some sort -- one of those Bonnie 
                    Prince in the heather things that 
                    seemed to play in every theater in 
                    London.

      Just then, YELLING and SHOUTING from somewhere brings her 
      attention back to the clearing just as FIVE SCOTS on HORSES 
      come thundering from the opposite direction, yelling in 
      Gaelic and heading right toward her.  Claire has the presence 
      of mind to step quickly and nimbly out of their way as they 
      charge into the clearing.  

      Suddenly there s the sound of a couple of MUSKETS FIRING and 
      a split second later a random ball SMACKS the tree trunk 
      right next to her.  She gapes at the tree for a second.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    But my mind could find no logical 
                      explanation for actors to fire live 
                      ammunition.  

      She turns and plunges into the woods.

      ON CLAIRE S LEGS

      As she runs through the woods, the branches and underbrush 
      lashing at her, we suddenly realize that Claire was the woman 
      running through the woods at the top of the show.

      She nearly falls, steadies herself against a tree and then is 
      GRABBED FROM BEHIND.

      Taken unaware, she s helpless for a moment, but when her eyes 
      focus on her abductor s face, her expression turns to 
      outrage.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Frank!  What the devil are you 
                    about?  You almost gave me...

      But her voice trails off as she realizes that the man 
      standing before her is not, in fact, her husband although the 
      resemblance to Frank is uncanny [and is played by the same 
      actor].  

                                  CLAIRE (cont d)
                    You re not Frank.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    34.

      CONTINUED: (2)

      CAPTAIN JACK RANDALL (30 s) wears a white shirt with cuffs, 
      his long hair tied back with a leather thong, his skin deeply 
      tanned, and a roughness about his features.  He looks at her 
      with a searching, piercing gaze.  There s something innately 
      dangerous about an encounter with Jack Randall, like 
      stumbling onto a big cat alone in the woods.

                                  JACK RANDALL
                    No.  I am not.

      Claire backs up a couple of steps as Jack Randall eyes her 
      with interest, his gaze unabashedly taking in the clear 
      outlines of her body beneath the sheer summer dress and 
      lingering on her exposed legs.  Claire bumps into a tree and 
      stops just as Randall turns away and picks up a coat -- a 
      REDCOAT.  An 18th century British Army officer s coat.  
      Ignoring her for the moment, he dresses and buckles on his 
      sword belt.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Who the bloody hell are you...?

                                  JACK RANDALL
                    I am, madam, Jonathan Randall, 
                    Esquire, Captain of His Majesty s 
                    Eighth Dragoons.  At your service.

      Claire turns and RUNS headlong through the woods.  She s 
      slashed and whipped by branches and leaves, but pays them no 
      mind in her sudden, panicked reaction.  But she doesn t get 
      very far before she s KNOCKED DOWN from behind by Randall, 
      who pursued her and now PINS her to the ground.  She 
      struggles, but he s much stronger and forces her back down.  

                                  CLAIRE
                    Let me go!

                                  JACK RANDALL
                    Oh, it s like that, is it? 

      The more she struggles, the more it eggs Randall on.  He 
      kisses her hard, forcing his tongue into her mouth for a 
      moment before pulling back

                                  JACK RANDALL (cont d)
                    You haven t the smell of dung on 
                    your skin, so you haven t been with 
                    a farmer.  For that matter, you 
                    look a bit more expensive than the 
                    local cottars could afford.
                          (beat)
                    I like expensive things.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    35.

      CONTINUED: (3)

      He leans down again, but now Claire SCREAMS into his ear, he 
      jerks back and she brings up a KNEE into his crotch.  He 
      falls off her in pain and she scrambles up, but she comes 
      face to face with a ROCK WALL and before Claire can find a 
      way out, Randall has rolled to his feet and blocks her path 
      to safety.  

                                  CLAIRE
                    My husband is expecting me.  He ll 
                    come looking for me if I m not back 
                    in ten minutes.

      Randall s eyes go feral as the big cat senses his prey is 
      cornered and flailing about.

                                  JACK RANDALL
                    Your husband?  What s his name and 
                    why does he allow his wife to 
                    wander the woods alone in her 
                    shift?

                                  CLAIRE
                    I don t answer to you.

      She tries to bolt past him, but he s faster and THROWS her 
      back with a force that nearly takes her off her feet.

                                  JACK RANDALL
                    Skin of a lady, French scent in 
                    your hair... that could all be 
                    managed with money from your 
                    patron... but you ve the speech of 
                    a lady as well.

      Claire backs up, finding only the rock wall behind her.  
      Randall advances, the time for games drawing to a close.

                                  JACK RANDALL (cont d)
                    You intrigue me, madam.  Whores are 
                    usually so dull and obvious.  I 
                    look forward to plumbing your 
                    depths.

      Suddenly he s on her and Claire is completely overpowered.  
      Strong, powerful fingers dig into her throat and shove her 
      against the rock, his knees forcing her legs apart and his 
      free hand reaching below her skirt --

      -- a MAN comes CRASHING down on Randall from above.  A well-
      placed blow to the head from a powerful fist, and Randall 
      lies on the ground, unconscious.  The man, MURTAGH (30 s) 
      wears a ragged shirt and filthy kilt, with pock-marked skin 
      and a swarthy complexion.   


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    36.

      CONTINUED: (4)

                                    MURTAGH
                    This way.

      He grabs Claire by the arm and jerks her into the woods.


      Murtagh is dragging Claire down the hillside.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Who the hell are you?  Where are we 
                    going?  I said, WHERE ARE WE--

      He suddenly whirls, puts a hand over her mouth and throws her 
      bodily to the ground, pinning her there with his weight.  She 
      struggles, wide-eyed and expecting the worst.  In the 
      distance, we suddenly HEAR ENGLISH VOICES in the distance.  
      Claire struggles wildly, hoping to cry out for help.  She 
      bites down on Murtagh s hand, but instead of releasing her, 
      he smashes a ROCK into her head --

                                                                    CUT TO BLACK.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    I wanted it to be a dream.  But I 
                    knew it wasn t.

      FADE IN:


      Claire comes to on HORSEBACK, sitting in front of Murtagh, 
      who keeps her upright on the saddle.  They come to a stop 
      outside an old COTTAGE amid a copse of trees on a hilltop.  A 
      fine MIST is in the air as they dismount, Murtagh handling 
      her easily.   

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    If nothing else, my erstwhile 
                    savior fairly reeked of odors too 
                    foul to be part of any dream I was 
                    likely to conjure up.  

      Claire doesn t protest as he unties her hands, then guides 
      her through the door of the cottage.


      A few minutes later, the men are outside the cottage and 
      climbing onto waiting HORSES.  Claire comes out with the 
      white-faced and weak Jamie -- now we can see he s quite tall.  
      Claire gapes at the view from the hilltop -- the STARS and 
      the MOON are out and provide a glorious display, but Claire 
      is looking toward the distant horizon with shock.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Where is it?  Where s the city?  We 
                    should be able to see it from here.

                                  JAMIE
                      Inverness?  Yer looking straight at 
                    it.

      He points with his good hand.  But now, instead of the 
      sparkling, twinkling lights that Claire saw earlier, the city 
      is nothing but a bunch of inky smudges just below the 
      horizon.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    The lights of the city should ve 
                    been visible for miles.  The 
                    electric lights, that is.  But 
                    there were no electric lights as 
                    far as the eye could see.  In fact, 
                    I hadn t seen a single electric 
                    bulb or a power cord, or a socket 
                    all night.  
                          (beat)
                    The implications of that 
                      observation chilled me to the bone.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    46.

      CONTINUED:

      Dougal seizes her by the arm and propels her toward a horse.  
      One of the men is holding the bridle and whispering Gaelic 
        reassurances into the animal s ear.

                                  DOUGAL
                    Jamie, get yourself up.

      As Jamie painfully swings up into the saddle, Dougal pulls 
      Claire closer to him.

                                  DOUGAL (cont d)
                    If Jamie canna manage one-handed 
                    you can hold the reins.  But do ye 
                    take care to stay close wi  the 
                    rest of us.  Should ye try anythin  
                    else, I shall cut your throat.  
                    D ye understand me?

      Chilled, Claire nods, then he releases her.  He bends down.  
      She stares at him, uncomprehending.

                                  DOUGAL (cont d)
                    Gimme yer foot.

      She takes a beat, realizes that by getting on this horse, 
      she s committing herself to -- something.  But there s little 
      choice and at last, she steps into his hand and he hauls her 
      up into the saddle in front of Jamie.  She can t help 
      jostling him around in the process. 

                                  CLAIRE
                    You all right?

                                  JAMIE
                    So far.  But  tis a young night 
                    still.

      He gives her an easy grin and helps her settle into place 
      with his one good arm.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    Dozens of wounded soldiers had 
                    tried to smile through their pain 
                    for my benefit.  But this was 
                      different.  The young man they 
                    called  Jamie  wasn t putting on an 
                    act.  And I instantly knew he had 
                    endured terrible pain in his short 
                    life and wasn t afraid of the 
                    prospect of more to come.





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    47.

      CONTINUED: (2)

      Up ahead Dougal gives a nod and the entire party of 
      Highlanders spur their horses as one and they trot down the 
      road into the darkness.


      They ride quickly and silently through the woods, ducking in 
      and out of groves of trees and then bolting across open 
      ground.  Through it all, Claire bounces along, held firmly to 
      her saddle by Jamie s strong legs and one good arm.


      Later.  The party has paused for a moment in the shadows at 
      the side of the road, while Dougal confers with Rupert.

      Claire shivers, her thin cotton dress providing virtually no 
      protection from the cold night air.  Jamie drops the reins, 
      letting the horse wander about and eat some grass, and begins 
      to twist and turn in his saddle.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Careful!  Don t twist like that, or 
                    your dressing will come off!  What 
                    are you trying to do?

                                  JAMIE
                    Get my plaid loose to cover you.  
                    You re shivering.  

                                  CLAIRE
                    Oh.  Well.  Thank you, but I m 
                    fine, really.

                                  JAMIE
                    You re shaking so hard it s making 
                    my teeth rattle.

      Claire almost smiles at that, softens slightly.

                                  CLAIRE
                    I wasn t expecting a nighttime ride 
                    when I dressed today.

                                  JAMIE
                    The plaid will keep us both warm, 
                    but I canna do it one-handed.   Can 
                    ye reach the clasp of my brooch?

      Claire awkwardly reaches around and with a bit of a struggle 
      they manage to loosen the wide plaid cloth from Jamie s 
      shoulder.  



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    48.

      CONTINUED:

                                  JAMIE (cont d)
                    We dinna want ye to freeze before 
                    we get there.

      He gives it a smooth, practiced twirl and then has it wrapped 
      around the two of them like a great woolen blanket.  The 
      effect is immediate and Claire gratefully snuggles against 
      him, soaking up the delicious warmth to ward off the chill.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Where are we going?

                                  JAMIE
                    Tell ye the truth, lassie, I don t 
                    know.  Reckon we ll both find out 
                    when we get there, eh?

      He grins at her, and again, she s disarmed enough by his 
      manner that she almost returns the grin -- almost.  They head 
      out once more.


      Later.  Dougal leads his men through an open area of terrain, 
      hugging the rocks and cliffs, as Claire begins to recognize 
      the rock formations up ahead.

                                  CLAIRE
                    I know this place...

                                  JAMIE
                    Been through here before have ye?

                                  CLAIRE
                    Yes... I recognize that rock... the 
                    one that looks like a rooster 
                    tail... it has a name...

                                  JAMIE
                      Cocknammon Rock.  

      -- FLASHBACK 

      Claire and Frank riding in their open car.

                                  FRANK
                      Cocknammon Rock.  During the 17th 
                    and 18th centuries, you d have 
                    often found a British army patrol 
                    lying there in wait for Scottish 
                    brigands or rebels. 




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    49.

      CONTINUED:

      RESUME

                                  CLAIRE
                    The English use it for ambushes!  
                    They could be lying in wait right 
                    now.

      Jamie peers up at the rocks looming ahead.

                                  JAMIE
                    It s a bonnie place for an ambush, 
                    all right.

      He spurs the horse and it leaps forward, covering the 
      distance between them and Dougal in a matter of seconds.  
      Once they re closer, Jamie speaks to the leader in low, 
      urgent tones.

                                  JAMIE (cont d)
                          (in Gaelic)
                    The lass thinks the redcoats might 
                    use Cocknammon Rock as cover for an 
                    ambush.

                                  DOUGAL
                          (Gaelic)
                    The lass thinks?  

                                  JAMIE
                          (Gaelic)
                    Aye -- and I must say it makes 
                    sense to me.

      Dougal thinks for a beat, then holds up a hand and reins his 
      horse to a STOP.  The rest of the men follow suit.  Dougal 
      turns to Claire with a hard look.

                                  DOUGAL
                    Now you ll be telling exactly how 
                    and why you come to know there be 
                    an ambush up ahead.

                                  CLAIRE
                    I don t know, but I ve heard that 
                    the redcoats use Cocknammon --

                                  DOUGAL
                    Where did you hear this?

                                  CLAIRE
                    In... the village.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    50.

      CONTINUED: (2)

                                  DOUGAL
                    From who did you --

      But then there are FLASHES OF LIGHT and THE POPPING OF 
      MUSKETS from the rocks around Cocknammon Rock and the sound 
      of BULLETS whizzing through the air around them.  One man s 
      HORSE is hit and goes down.

      Dougal reacts instantly, gives a GAELIC SHOUT to his men and 
      they immediately SPLIT INTO TWO GROUPS:  Dougal, Rupert and 
      Neddie spur their horses to the gallop and charge directly 
      toward the rocks, while Jamie, Murtagh and two others wheel 
      their mounts and circle around to the right.

      Claire has to hold on for her life at the horse s sudden 
      motion, but before she can get her wits about her, Jamie 
      grabs her around the torso with his good arm and TOSSES HER 
      FROM THE HORSE into a BUSH, where she lands hard, but safe.

      THE REDCOATS

      Hidden among the rocks.  Captain Randall suddenly stands up.

                                  JACK RANDALL
                    Fix BAYONETS!

      The men begin to fix the long blades to their weapons.  
      Meanwhile Randall takes careful aim at one of the Highlanders 
      with a PISTOL.  He FIRES --

      -- the bullet whizzes past Dougal s head in the darkness.  
      Dougal leans forward, his blood up and his expression 
      ferocious as he lets out a ROAR of battle.  The other 
      Highlanders pick up the YELL and the sound unnerves the 
      redcoats as they fumble with their equipment in the dark.

                                  JACK RANDALL (cont d)
                    Port ARMS!

      The soldiers whip their muskets diagonally across their 
      chests.  The Highlanders are nearly on top of them now and 
      the soldiers are getting scared.

                                  JACK RANDALL (cont d)
                    Pre-SENT!

      They thrust the bayonets forward, the wicked tips ready for 
      the on coming rush.

                                  JACK RANDALL (cont d)
                    Stand fast!  STAND FAST!




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    51.

      CONTINUED: (3)

      DOUGAL

      Swerves away at the last second, the other two men swerving 
      at exactly the same moment.

      THE REDCOATS

      Mystified at the sudden change.  Randall narrows his eyes for 
      a beat, then realizing a moment too late --

                                  JACK RANDALL (cont d)
                    WHEEL ABOUT!  THEY RE BEHIND --

      JAMIE 

      And the other Highlanders are suddenly on top of them from 
      the rear.  The redcoats are confused and scattered by the 
      attack.  Jamie leaps/falls from his horse and crashes into 
      two soldiers, knocking them senseless before they know what s 
      happening. 

      CLAIRE - A HUNDRED YARDS AWAY FROM THE FIGHT

      Unwinds herself from the bush and the plaid (which she was 
      swaddled in) and gets to her feet.  From this distance, she 
      can only see the flash of PISTOLS, SPARKS from steel swords 
      and bayonets clanging against one another, and hear the 
      sounds of desperate men locked in a life or death battle in 
      the dark.

      She turns away from the sights and sounds of the battle and 
      strikes out on her own.

      DOUGAL

      And his men now re-enter the fight, adding to the violent 
      chaos as the redcoats are forces to fight in all directions.  

      COPSE OF TREES

      A few minutes later, Claire is struggling through trees and 
      underbrush, trying to make headway over uneven and unfamiliar 
      ground.  She stumbles and falls, tries to keep going despite 
      the difficulties.

      THE FIGHT

      -- Rupert slashes at a redcoat soldier, dropping him in his 
      tracks.

      -- Murtagh is locked in an intense battle with a redcoat who 
      knows exactly how to use his bayonet.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    52.

      CONTINUED: (4)

      -- Dougal going sword to sword with a SERGEANT.

      -- Jamie dispatches a redcoat, then turns and is suddenly 
      confronted with Jack Randall.  There s a moment of 
      recognition between the two men --

                                  JACK RANDALL (cont d)
                    You --

      Jamie snarls and takes a step toward Randall, but suddenly 
      TWO REDCOATS charge at him with bayonets from his blind side 
      just as Murtagh appears and attacks Randall.  The upshot 
      being that both Jamie and Randall lose sight of one another 
      in the confusion of the fight.

      Randall ends up pitching head first down some rocks and being 
      knocked unconscious.  Murtagh ignores him and rejoins the 
      fight.

      Jamie dispatches the redcoats and whirls around, searching 
      for Randall.  He spots him at the bottom of the hill, 
        unconscious.  With a snarl, he starts to move toward him, but 
      Dougal lays a heavy hand on him --

                                  DOUGAL
                    No time for that now lad!

      Jamie has little choice.  With a last glance down at 
      Randall s form, Jamie heads off with Dougal.


      A short time later.  Claire is having a hard time of it.  
      It s easy to get disoriented and she ends up changing 
      direction more than once.  Finally, she comes to a stop at 
      what appears to be a CROSSROADS, with a few rough paths 
      coming together.  She looks up at the brilliant night sky, 
      hunting through the stars for --

                                  VOICE  
                    North star be over there.

      Claire jumps back with a startled yell -- and finds Jamie 
      pointing to the sky from a short distance away.

                                  JAMIE
                    Didna mean to frighten ye.

      Claire, refusing to admit that, pulls herself up and adopts 
      her best tone of the hospital scold.





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    53.

      CONTINUED:

                                  CLAIRE
                    Hope you haven t been misusing that 
                    shoulder.

                                  JAMIE
                          (massaging shoulder)
                    Yon wee stramash didna do it any 
                    good.

      Claire then notices FRESH BLOOD across his shirt.  She 
      quickly moves to him, her instincts taking over.

                                  CLAIRE
                    You re hurt!  Have you broken open 
                    your shoulder wound, or is it 
                    fresh?  Sit down and let me see!

      He does as he s told, sitting on a rock and letting her look 
      him over.

                                  JAMIE (CONT D)
                    This lot isna my blood.  Not much 
                    of it anyway.

                                  CLAIRE
                          (a little queasy)
                    Oh... 

                                  JAMIE
                    Dougal and the others will be 
                    waiting by the road.  Let s go.

      He takes her by the arm and moves to leave, but she decides 
      to make her stand here.

                                  CLAIRE
                    No!  I m not going with you!

      Jamie isn t vexed at all, looks at her with slight amusement

                                  JAMIE
                    Yes, you are.

                                  CLAIRE
                    And what if I won t?  Are you going 
                    to cut my throat?

                                  JAMIE
                    Why, no.  You don t look heavy.  If 
                    ye won t walk, I shall pick you up 
                    and sling ye over my shoulder.  Do 
                    ye want me to do that?



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    54.

      CONTINUED: (2)

                                  CLAIRE
                    No!  

      Claire immediately regrets the note of alarm in answer.  She 
      retreats into her professional mien once more.

                                  CLAIRE (cont d)
                    I mean... you can t do that.  
                    You ll damage your shoulder again.

                                  JAMIE
                    Well then, since ye don t want me 
                    to hurt myself, I suppose that 
                    means as you re comin  with me?

      There s that grin again, and Claire realizes that she really 
      doesn t have any options here.  Keeping her head held high, 
      she walks with him back into the trees.


      A few minutes later, Jamie and Claire have rejoined Dougal 
      and the others near a small creek.  The men are in good 
      spirits, laughing and talking in the dark about the fight as 
      they mount their horses.  They all seem to be accounted for, 
      so evidently they got the better of the redcoats.  

      Jamie swings up onto their horse and Claire scrambles aboard 
      once more -- this time he grunts in pain as she bumps his bad 
      shoulder.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Serves you right, brawling round 
                    the countryside and chasing through 
                    bushes and rocks.  You ve probably 
                    got torn muscles as well as 
                    bruises.  

                                  JAMIE
                    Well, it wasna much of a choice.  
                    If I d not moved my shoulder, I 
                    wouldna have ever moved anything 
                    else again.  I can handle a single 
                    redcoat wi  one hand -- maybe even 
                    two of them.  But not three.
                          (beat)
                    Besides, ye can fix it for me again 
                    when we get where we re going.

                                  CLAIRE
                    That s what you think.

      Rupert rides over, lifts a flask in salute to Claire.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    55.

      CONTINUED:

                                  RUPERT
                    Here s to you, lassie!  For tipping 
                    us to the villains in the rocks and 
                    giving us a bit o  fun!

      The men CHEER and they drink up from hidden flasks.  Claire 
      isn t all that moved by the celebration.  Jamie pulls out his 
      own flask and hands it to Claire.

                                  JAMIE
                    Better have a wee nip.  It willna 
                    fill your belly, but it will make 
                    ye forget you re hungry.

      She hesitates, but then takes a nip, grateful for the heat it 
      generates within.


      The party is riding quietly, but quickly through the moors, 
      expertly avoiding the boggy areas of water and staying in the 
      heather.  Claire is exhausted beyond caring as she bounces 
      along.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    I had no idea where we were going.  
                    I ve never had a sense of direction 
                    in the dark, and had never learned 
                    from Frank his trick of navigation 
                    by the stars.

      -- FLASHBACK

      Claire and Frank walking together at night.  They re on the 
      street in the village, arm in arm.  He points up to the stars 
      overhead, as he talks about navigating at night.  She s not 
      really listening, but smiles warmly at him.

      RESUME

      Claire takes in a shuddering breath at the memory.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Thinking of Frank made me want to 
                    cry, so I tried to distract myself 
                    by trying to make sense of the 
                    day s events.  I was still looking 
                    for rational explanations, but 
                    there were none.  
                          (beat)
                                  (MORE)




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    56.

      CONTINUED:
                                  CLAIRE (cont'd)
                    The truth was, as much as my 
                    rational mind rebelled against the 
                    very idea, I knew in my heart that 
                    I was no longer in the 20th 
                      century...

      Behind her, Jamie s eyes flutter and he begins slumping over 
      in the saddle.  Claire awkwardly tries to grab him, but can t 
      hold him.

                                  CLAIRE (cont d)
                    Stop!  HELP!  He s going over!

      They rein in and Murtagh and Rupert jump down just in time to 
      catch Jamie as he tumbles out of the saddle.  They ease him 
      to the ground as Claire leaps down to quickly check his 
      vitals.  Dougal and the other men gather around in concern.

                                  CLAIRE (cont d)
                    He has a pulse...
                          (puts ear to his chest)
                    He s breathing... I think he s just 
                    fainted.  Put a saddlebag under his 
                    feet and if there s water, bring me 
                    some.  

      Murtagh and Neddie quickly carry out her instructions as 
      Dougal leans down for a better look at Jamie.

                                  CLAIRE (cont d)
                          (to Dougal)
                    The gunshot wound has been bleeding 
                    again, and the idiot s been stabbed 
                    as well.  I don t think it s 
                    serious, but he s lost a lot of 
                    blood.  

      Dougal turns to the others, says a few brief words in Gaelic 
      and then they tend to the horses.  Claire works with what 
      little she has -- essentially tearing more strips from her 
      dress to make a new dressing for his knife wound.  Jamie 
      begins to stir, he opens his eyes -- his features pale and 
      drawn in the moonlight.

                                  JAMIE
                    I m all right... just a wee bit 
                    dizzy...

                                  CLAIRE
                    You are not all right.  Couldn t 
                    you tell how badly you were 
                    bleeding?  
                                  (MORE)


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    57.

      CONTINUED: (2)
                                  CLAIRE (cont'd)
                    You re lucky you re not dead, 
                    tearing around the countryside, 
                    brawling and fighting and throwing 
                    yourself off horses.  

      She tries to put the bandages in place, but the jury-rigged 
      dressings tend to slip away under her fingers.

                                  CLAIRE (cont d)
                          (re: bandages)
                    No -- c mon now YOU GODDAMNED 
                    BLOODY BASTARD! 

      The other men literally stop and look at her in shock.

                                  DOUGAL
                    Ne er heard a woman use such 
                    language in all my life.

                                  RUPERT
                          (to Claire)
                    Your husband should tan ye, woman.  
                    St. Paul says,  let a woman be 
                    silent, and - 

                                  CLAIRE
                    You can mind your own bloody 
                    business and so can St. Paul!  
                          (to Murtagh)
                    Turn him to the left.  
                          (to Jamie)
                    And if you move so much as one 
                    single muscle while I m tying this 
                    bandage, I ll throttle you.

                                  JAMIE
                    Oh, threats is it?  And after I 
                    shared my drink with ye...

      Dougal leans down with his own flask.

                                  CLAIRE
                    No more spirits.  He needs tea, or 
                    at worst, water.  Not alcohol.

      Dougal pours the whiskey down Jamie s throat anyway.

                                  DOUGAL
                    Tend to your business, woman.   
                    We ve a good way to go yet tonight 
                    and he ll need whatever strength 
                    the drink can give him.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    58.

      CONTINUED: (3)

                                  CLAIRE
                    He needs rest!  

                                  DOUGAL
                    We ve a good fifteen miles yet to 
                    go.  Five hours, at the least and 
                    more likely seven.  We ll stay long 
                    enough for ye to stop the bleeding 
                    and dress the wound again -- no 
                    much more than that.

      Dougal moves off, ending the conversation.  Claire s eyes 
      flare and she starts to go after him, but Jamie stops her 
      with a word --

                                  JAMIE
                    Randall won t give up so easily.  

      Randall.  The name cuts through Claire and she gasps 
      slightly.  She quickly tries to regain her composure.

                                  JAMIE (cont d)
                    He ll have patrols out in every 
                    direction by now.  We canna stay 
                    here.

                                  CLAIRE
                    You know Randall -- Black Jack 
                    Randall, that is?

                                  JAMIE
                          (quiet)
                    Aye.
                          (beat)
                    I won  risk you or anyone else 
                    being taken prisoner by that man.  
                    If ye canna fix me up well enough 
                    to ride, then you ll all be leaving 
                    me here with a loaded pistol so I 
                    may determine my own fate.

      Claire takes a beat, then applies herself to his wounds.

                                  CLAIRE
                    You could ve at least told me you 
                    were stabbed before you fell off 
                    the horse.

                                  JAMIE
                    It was a bayonet -- felt it go in, 
                    but it dinna hurt at the time.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    59.

      CONTINUED: (4)

                                  CLAIRE
                    Does it hurt now?

                                  JAMIE
                    Aye.

                                  CLAIRE
                    Good.

      Jamie s chuckle turns to a grunt as she cinches up the wound.  

                                  CLAIRE (cont d)
                    That s all I can do right now.  The 
                    rest is up to you.  

                                  JAMIE
                    Thank you, Sassenach.  Truly.

      She looks into his eyes and is caught for a moment by the 
      sincerity and strength she sees in the young highlander.  
      Then she gruffly covers her reaction.

                                  CLAIRE
                    On your feet, soldier.

      She gives him a hand and he accepts her help.


      Dougal leads the tired party over a hill and down a road.  A 
      HEAVY MIST hangs over the area.  Jamie is still in the 
      saddle, if only barely.  Claire isn t in much better shape.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    The rest of the night passed in a 
                    haze of half-sleep, verging on 
                    delirium.  Then, finally we neared 
                    our destination.

      A LARGE STRUCTURE of some sort rise up out of the thick 
      morning mists.  Claire s bleary eyes try to focus on the 
      shape.  Finally she is able to make it out -- 

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    Castle Leoch.

      -- FLASHBACK

      Claire getting out of the car with Frank and looking up at 
      the castle ruins from the same perspective.





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    60.

      CONTINUED:

      RESUME

      The castle, now a thriving hub of activity, is directly 
      ahead.  PEOPLE are on the road coming and going to the castle 
      entrance, few of them paying any attention to Claire s party.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    I d been here with Frank only 
                      yesterday.  Or was that in the 
                    future?  How could I remember 
                    something that hadn t happened yet?

      Dougal leads the band across the BRIDGE and into the castle.

                                  CLAIRE (V.O.)
                    So far, I d been assaulted, 
                      threatened, kidnapped and nearly 
                    raped.  And somehow, I knew that my 
                    journey had only just begun.

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                  END OF EPISODE