
The two teens are kneeling by heavy WOODEN STOCKS.  Standing 
before them are several black-clad men, the SELECTMEN of 
Salem.  Their leader, GEORGE SIBLEY, holds the bible.

BOY
I, Isaac Walton, have gazed upon 
the nakedness of Abigail Cooke.  
And did kiss her.

SIBLEY
And --

The boy mumbles incoherently.  Sibley slaps his face.

SIBLEY
And committed the sin of Self-
Pollution --

BOY
-- And committed the sin of Self-
Pollution.

Sibley nods to the Bailiff. 

SIBLEY
Ten hard ones.

A LARGE CROWD looks on with a mixture of fear and fascination 
as the Bailiff WHIPS the boy s naked back, sending flecks of 
flesh into the young faces forced to bear witness front and 
center.  

SIBLEY
(to the crowd)
This is not Sodom!  But Salem!  We 
do not tolerate -- abominations.
(to the teen prisoners)
(MORE)MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/132.

SIBLEY (CONT'D)
Nor those who commit them.  You two 
will hang in the stocks overnight.  
And you, boy, shall bear the mark 
of your crime for the rest of your 
life.

Sibley pulls a heavy IRON BRAND from a grate of coals.  The 
Boy jerks back from the heat.  One of the Selectman, 
MAGISTRATE HALE, seems a less severe sort.  He shifts 
uncomfortably.

HALE
 sake, Sibley, the stocks For God s
are punishment enough.

Sibley ignores him and presses down the brand.  The boy 
screams in agony as an F-shaped scar is seared onto his 
forehead.

SIBLEY
(for all to hear)
Fornicator!

He glares at the pale and frightened juveniles, until he sees 
one face staring daggers at him -- 

YOUNG JOHN ALDEN

is neither pale nor frightened.  His face burns with rage at 
Sibley -- who simply looks away with a righteous sneer. 

Alden turns to find MARY, 16, in the crowd.  It s clear they 
have a connection.  Alden gives Mary a pointed nod, some sort 
of signal.  She nods in return, tempting fate...


Behind a row of houses lit only the wavering light of a 
lantern in the hands of the NIGHT WATCH, black-clad morality 
police, making their rounds. 

 door to one large When the coast is clear, the servants 
house opens a crack.  A cinnamon face peers out, then opens 
the door wider.  Mary slips past the slave girl, TITUBA.

MARY
 wait up.Tituba.  Promise you ll

TITUBA
(slyly)
 your servant.  Do I have a I m
choice?MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/133.


A shared look hints the two girls are friends as Mary 
disappears down the alleyway...


The two teens still hang in the stocks, shivering from the 
cold, covered in rotten eggs, fish, and human shit.  

YOUNG MARY crouches in the darkness.  The houses all dark 
except the enormous, seven-gabled SIBLEY MANSION.  

Sibley himself stands tall on the balcony, looking down over 
his town.  Satisfied, he disappears inside and Mary takes off 
through the shadows...


Mary cautiously enters the headstone forest, winged skulls, 
and other Puritan symbols of death.  She nearly screams when 
she's grabbed from behind --

It s Alden, who pulls her behind a large monument.  An urgent 
kiss between them, then Mary pushes him back.

MARY
 you learn Didn tanything today?

ALDEN
Leviticus 20.  The Lord brought us 
to this land of milk and honey and 
all he asks is that I not fuck my 
 sheep.  Or anything else.father s

MARY
Seriously.

ALDEN
Seriously?  If I spend another 
night under the same stars as that 
 kill him.  bastard Sibley I ll

Mary kisses him again.  If only to shut him up. 

MARY 
 Sibley knows that.  Someday it ll
be you in the stocks. 

ALDEN
No day soon.

Mary fights back tears.

MARY
You re really going this time.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/134.


Alden nods and pulls out a deerskin bag stashed behind the 
gravestone.

ALDEN
I got a better chance against the 
French and Indians than Sibley and 
 rather die his Puritans.  And I d
fighting than being pissed on by 
the good souls of Salem.

MARY
(holding him tighter)
t die at all. rather you didn I d

ALDEN
 No man can promise that.  But I ll
promise you this: I was born here.  
We were some of the first.  I mean 
to die here one day.  With you.

MARY
You promise?

ALDEN
 stronger than a promise?What s

MARY
I don t know.  A vow, I guess.

He shows her a soft, old SILVER COIN.   

ALDEN
Then this is my vow.  Worth a 
year s wages.  My father gave it to 
me, to see me through the war.

He bends the soft metal back and forth until it tears in two 
pieces.  He hands half to Mary.

ALDEN
 last a year.  And The war won t
this coin ll be one again, like us. 

 his last night on earth.  The two Mary kisses him like it s
slip to the soft grass behind the monument, and lose 
themselves in each other one last time...

DISSOLVE TO:

THE MONUMENT

The SEASON HAS CHANGED and leaves have fallen.  RISE now from 
the gravestone to see --MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/135.



Part church, part town hall.  


Tituba leads a fragile Mary through the hushed woods.  

MARY
You sure this is the only way?

TITUBA
Shh.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/136.



A restless wind moves the spidery branches as Tituba 
 gown and lays the naked Mary on the damp unbuttons Mary s
earth.  

Tituba rubs ointment onto Mary's lips, inserts her fingers 
into Mary's mouth.  Then begins sensuously rubbing her 
glistening hands down her neck and shoulders, over her 
 breasts -- until she reaches Mary spregnant belly.  

MARY
(anxiety rising)
 do this.  Please...I can t

TITUBA
 No choice, Mary.  They llhang you 
if they find out.  You want to 
live?  Lie still.

 swollen belly.  As the Tituba rubs the ointment onto Mary s
glistening ointment absorbs into her naked skin, Mary turns 
to see the darkness between the trees filled with SILVERY 
EYES peering out at her.  She braces herself in the earth, 
but the earth itself shifts and seethes around her.  

SWARMS OF STRANGE INSECTS spill out of the rich, dark decay 
of the forest floor: 

BLACK SHINY BEETLES and LONG FAT CENTIPEDES, GLISTENING SLUGS 
and HAIRY SPIDERS seethe up and onto her arms and breasts --

 body heaves with the pain inside, but when she looks Mary s
down there are no bugs on her oiled skin. 

She looks up in fear to Tituba, who bends low over her, 
stroking her forehead.

TITUBA
Say it.  This is what you want.  

MARY
Yes.  Yes.  Yes.

Mary clenches her fist at sudden pain in her stomach and she 
 CRY -- or was it screams louder.  And then we hear a BABY S
the shriek of an animal? 

The wind dies and Mary s hallucinations have gone with it and 
the pain.  Her head falls back and her fist opens.  We see 
 been squeezing the silver half-coin Alden gave her.  she s

Tituba buries a blood-soaked burlap bundle.  Behind her, Mary 
sobs.  Tituba gently kisses her and whispers:MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/137.


TITUBA
All the world shall be yours in 
return.

CUT TO BLACK.

SUPER: 10 YEARS LATER

FADE IN:

THREE CORPSES

hang from a bent tree along the main thoroughfare into Salem.  
Birds hover and peck at the bodies.  Rubberneckers take pot 
shots at the swinging corpses with flintlocks while an old 
BAILIFF wearily waves the slow parade on:

BAILIFF
Save your powder for the Indians -- 
let the birds eat the damn witches. 

ANGLE - TRAFFIC JAM

Horse-drawn wagons, passenger coaches, etc.  Horns, cursing, 
road rage.  One wagon carries two well-dressed women -- 
PRUDENCE HALE and her 17-year-old daughter ANNE.  

As the wagon rounds the bend, we see the three bodies hanging 
from the trees: an OLD WOMAN, a ONE-LEGGED MAN, and a YOUNGER 
 SYNDROME.WOMAN clearly marked with what we call DOWN S

ANNE
 Silly Sara.  What in Why that s
 name did they hang her for?God s

BAILIFF
A bill as long as your arm, Miss.  
Made cows give milk clogged with 
white worms.  Swelled old Hutchins  
leg like a tree trunk.  And she 
 daughter.bewitched the Reverend s

MRS. HALE
(fascinated)
Mercy Lewis?  Bewitched by her?

BAILIFF
(nods)
Confessed to Cotton Mather she was 
a witch -- said her own mother and 
father brought her to the woods 
where she kissed the devil's red 
ass and signed his black book.  
 hanging right with her.They reMALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/138.


ANNE
 Nonsense.  That poor girl couldn t
write her own name, how could she 
 black book?sign the Devil s

Mrs. Hale urges the driver on.

MRS. HALE
Isaac, get us out from under 
these... things.

ANNE
People, Mother.  They were people.

 youthful prattle.  But Mrs. Hale waves off her daughter s
 bold attitude:someone else notices Anne s

Another passenger -- a man in the back of the wagon -- tips 
up the brim of his hat. 

 JOHN ALDENIt s.  Now a hardened veteran at 27, the bright 
fire in Alden s eyes has worn to a charcoal glow.  He seems a 
little surprised, and a little impressed, by this bold girl 
who is making thumb sketches of the bodies in a note book. 

MRS. HALE
Anne!  Stop that this instant.  
Your father indulges your childish 
scribbles as a method of studying 
 creation, but --the Lord s

ALDEN
(the hanging witches)
 -- isn tthats  part of your Lord 
creation?  Or is he not fully in 
charge?

Anne suppresses a laugh.  Mrs. Hale doesn t quite understand 
 being mocked. but can tell when she s

MRS. HALE
(to her daughter)
We should have stayed in Boston. 
Cotton Mather says Witches can take 
on any face.  They could be anyone. 

She looks around -- and lands on Alden, as if to say  case in 
  The Driver (ISAAC, 20's, long hair) looks over his point .
shoulder and squints at Alden.

ISAAC
I can vouch for him, Mrs. Hale.  
He s a local boy.  Let me introduce 
the late John Alden. MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/139.


ALDEN
Late for what?

ISAAC
 heard?  You died a You ain t
glorious death -- when was it, two 
summers ago?  Battle of the Great 
 what folk Swamp?  Believe that s
said.  And bravely too.

Anne looks impressed by this; her mother decidedly less so.

ALDEN
Sorry to disappoint.  Not dead.  
Not a hero. 


Isaac s wagon rolls through Salem.  The once grim little port 
has blossomed into a colorful, prosperous chaos. 

Alden surveys all the ships lined up to unload, all the 
construction and rolling carts overflowing with goods -- and 
laughs a little bitterly.  Ten years of war have been kinder 
to Salem than they have to him.

But Alden is surprised -- and by the look of it, pleasantly -- 
by the color and chaos of the crowded, colonial melting pot 
his hometown has become.  

AT THE DEPOT

Alden notices a man wearing A PRIMITIVE SANDWICH BOARD 
covered in the latest one-sheet sensations -- the original 
Tabloid newspapers -- a few bold words and a crude woodcut: 

-- One headline: MERCY!  Above a disturbing drawing of a girl 
with her head turned wrong-way round, clinging to a ceiling 
like a spider. 

-- Another headline screams: BLACK SABBATH! and shows a man 
and a woman kneeling and kissing the exposed ass of a 
monstrous Devil.

Alden watches the walking tabloid wobble through the throng, 
collecting pennies and distributing the one-sheets in return.

ALDEN
(to no-one in particular)
Hardly recognize the place.

While behind him, Anne Hale watches him.  Paying close 
attention to his broad shoulders and strong ass. MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1310.


ANNE
Well if you ever need a guide to 
the new Salem --

Mrs. Hale yanks her daughter along before she can finish.  


Alden carries his old deerskin bag, behind a row of houses.  
He stops at the very one where we saw Young Mary sneak out 
for their secret rendezvous.  The back door flies open, and 
 face lights up --for a moment Alden s

-- but he steps back quickly to avoid the bucket of slop that 
a servant tosses out the back door.

ALDEN
Does Mary Walcot still live here?

SERVANT
Never heard of her.

The door slams shut.


Alden walks up to the porch of an old shuttered house at the 
 only tied shut, so Alden cuts it top of a hill.  The door s
open and enters.

Sheets cover the furniture.  Sheets of dust cover the sheets.  
Alden opens a window to let in the air and light then walks 
back out to the porch --

-- and straight into the black hole of a Matchlock rifle big 
enough to down a bear.

GILES (O.S.)
Come on.  One more step.  Save me 
the trouble of aiming.

Alden steps out to face GILES COREY, 65.  He has a half a 
dozen small woodland animals hung to various belts on him, 
and a bloody burlap bag filled with heavier catch.

ALDEN
Seems a harsh way to say welcome 
home.

 eyes suddenly go from flint to flood --The Old Trapper s

GILES
Johnny?  It can t be.  I heard you--MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1311.


ALDEN
 tell me.  Died a hero in the Don t
Great Swamp.

GILES
Drunk between the legs of a New 
York whore, more like it.

A WEASEL lurches up from Giles' belt, still alive.  He beats 
it back down with the butt of his rifle.


The old house still dominates the town.  But it is not Old 
 --Sibley who surveys his domain from the balcony it s

MARY SIBLEY

 come far from the delirious 16 year-old girl we saw She s
lying in the woods.  She stands ramrod straight, if such 
curves can be called straight.  As if poured into the tight 
black silk she wears, radiating confidence, beauty, power.  


John Alden stands by the bare stocks, looking up at the vast 
seven gabled Sibley house and at the shiny black doors behind 
which lies everything he came home to find. 

His Mary.  In there.  The very last place on earth he could 
have imagined her. MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1315.



REV. LEWIS leads his family in prayer as Cotton strides back 
with Alden, a burly ANCHORSMITH, and a ruddy INDIAN SLAVE.  MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1316.


HUMAN SHRIEKS -- ANIMAL NOISES from within the house. Alden 
looks at the second floor window, where the shadow of a child 
flits by.  He looks back at the Reverend and his terrified 
family -- all this, from a child?

 But then Alden notes the deep gouges around the Reverend s
bloodshot eyes.  

COTTON
Watch your eyes.  She goes for the 
eyes.

SMASH CUT TO:

MERCY LEWIS -- SCREAMING and LAUNCHING herself from her bed!  


Anne Hale walks with youthful impatience, leading her mother 
and her father.  We recognize him as MAGISTRATE HALE.  Hale 
 on the way to Meeting.nods and greets his  constituents 

 about to enter the Meeting Hall when her mother Anne s
unceremoniously grabs her dress, halting her -- 

MARY SIBLEY stares coldly, as if willing Anne to step back 
and make way.  Anne obliges, and her mother nearly bows.  
Mary responds with a cool nod and enters the Meeting House 
followed by a servant wheeling her infirm husband.

Hidden in a throng waiting patiently for their betters to 
enter the meeting house, ALDEN watches all this.  

COTTON (O.S.)
 war.  For only a war Fear no man s
from Hell can destroy Salem.  


The crowds of people have fallen into tight knots, 
discussing, arguing, even fighting over what they heard.   

ANGLE ON Alden and Giles watching this and the other signs of 
a community beginning to unravel. 

GILES
Puritans know their day is passing.  
But nothing like a new Enemy, or 
better yet, a new Old Enemy, to get 
people behind you.

Mary wheels her chair-bound husband up as Giles walks away...

MARY
Captain Alden.  Reverend Lewis 
called for a day of fasting and 
prayer for the recovery of his 
daughter.  Mister Sibley and I are 
hosting a small dinner to break the 
 be -- fast tomorrow night.  We d
honoredd join us. -- if you 

Alden looks into her eyes -- even after all these years, he 
could lose himself.  He tears his eyes from the woman who 
once was nearly his, to look instead at the drooling old man 
she married.

ALDEN
Don t know about you Mister Sibley, 
but I haven t the stomach for 
prayers -- or fasts.  But I do 
believe in dinner.  

Alden looks up from Sibley's glazed, unseeing eyes to the 
darkly shining eyes of Mary --

ALDEN
(to Mary)
 be there.-- I ll

Mary stares after him, her emotions unreadable. 

But then we see her notice someone else -- someone also 
watching Alden. MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1322.


 It sIsaac.s noticed by her, Isaac bows to Mary   Seeing he 
and hurries on his way -- while keeping a steady eye on --

ALDEN

walking across the Common, past a gaggle of CHILDREN playing 
 picks her victim a duck-duck-goose type game.  The  Witch 
with an elaborately folded paper cootie-catcher and then they 
all explode into raucous screams as the chase is on.

It's unsettling.  And somehow as the girl playing the Witch 
chases the other children, they all end up encircling Alden. 

The Witch child shoves the folded paper into his face.

WITCH CHILD
 for you!You!  It s

Alden takes the dirty paper from the dirtier little hand.

ALDEN
For me?  Who says?

WITCH CHILD
(giggling)
Can t tell.

 circled him, the Witch girl leads And as quickly as they ve
the gaggle back across the Common, leaving Alden standing in 
the empty Common staring at the paper.

He unfolds it to find a flyer for the local Pleasure Garden, 
 HoleKnocker s.  All the latest attractions.  Bear baiting 
and everything.  Probably just a way of drumming up business.

 about to toss it when he notices the little girl Alden s
staring at him from across the Common.  She grins and points 
her witchy finger at him.

CUT TO:

THICK BLONDE HAIR FALLS AWAY FROM SHEARS

s hair away to the scalp.   hands clip Mercy As a woman s


The lowest part of Salem -- in every sense.  Labyrinthine 
alley ways spread between the docks where the ships load and 
 night town.  unload.  This is Salem s


Isaac steps out of the smoky passage into the alley and looks 
both ways.  No sign of Alden.

He s about to step back in when out of the shadows a massive 
hand grabs him by the throat and pulls him in.

Alden slams the cowering driver against a rough stone wall.  
He pins him there, by the throat, at his own eye level -- 
 crooked legs dangle above the ground. letting Isaac s

ALDEN
What do you want with me?

Small parties head in and out of Knocker's Hole -- none 
bothering with the large man choking the smaller man to 
 not an unfamiliar sight.death.  It s

Alden looks at the little man who can clearly do him little 
harm -- and opens his fist, letting him drop in a heap.

ALDEN
 even know you.I don t

ISAAC
Yes you do.

Isaac brushes his long hair back from his face, off the 
 more of a burn -- and usually obscured forehead scar.  It s
 healed badly, in the unmistakable shape of the letter it sF.

ALDEN
 Isaac.You re

ISAAC
(bitter rasp)
Isaac the Fornicator!  Hide your 
wives!  Hide your daughters!  Hell, 
your sheep!

ALDEN
(not unkind)
Well I got no wives.  And I got no 
sheep.  So what do you want with 
me, Isaac?

ISAAC
 believe me, John Alden.  You won t
But coming home to Salem to get out 
of a war --

Isaac picks himself up off the ground.  Dusts himself off.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1327.


ISAAC
-- that s like jumping in the ocean 
to get out of the rain.

ALDEN
Talk sense.

ISAAC
re -- Evil. here.  They They re  
They want Salem.  And won't stop 
  all. us fixed they  til

ALDEN
(trying to follow)
They?  Who?

ISAAC
Witches.

ALDEN
(almost relieved)
Witches?  That what this is?  You 
 idiots?just another of Mather s

ISAAC
No.  You don t get it.  The witches 
are in charge.

ALDEN
In charge of what?

Isaac suddenly looks spooked.  Like the night itself, and the 
scent of the woods on it, might be listening.

ISAAC
The witch hunt.  The foxes are 
guarding the henhouse.  And hanging 
the chickens along the road!

Alden just squints.  Like he s really trying to understand -- 
then catches himself.  Nonsense upon nonsense.

ALDEN
(walking away)
Night, Isaac.  Been a long time. 
Probably gonna be longer.

But this time the crooked man reaches out his crooked hand 
 arm.and grabs Alden s

ISAAC
 walk out on us -- Please.  Don t
again.  MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1328.


We see Alden feel that.  He tries to shake it off as easily 
as he does Isaac.  He finally turns back into the darkness of 
Knocker's Hole for some distraction after all...


A crooked door to a crooked house opens, and Cotton leaves 
the Diving Rod Brothel.  Behind him, the TOOTHLESS MADAME 
sees him out.  Cotton pulls his hat low with a scowl that 
 never be back, but the Old Bawd knows better.says he ll

OLD BAWD
See ya next time, G vnor.

As Cotton steps out into the street, head down, he runs smack 
into Alden -- who is walking a bit unsteadily himself.  

The two men stare awkwardly at each other.  

COTTON
Just attending to the Poor.  And 
Poor in spirit.

ALDEN
(noting the crooked door)
Hard work.  Somebody s got to.

Headed the same direction they walk together -- stiffly.

COTTON
Captain Alden, right?

ALDEN
Right or wrong.

COTTON
You know, my father knew yours.  At 
Harvard.

ALDEN
Your father knows everyone.

COTTON
Rather expected to meet you there 
myself.

ALDEN
Didn t think several years counting 
angels on the heads of pins was 
much preparation for life.  Not any 
life I would lead.

 arrived where their paths diverge -- literally.They veMALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1329.


COTTON
Pity.  I owe everything to my 
education.

Alden about to walk away, to walk it off, but something in 
 tone stops him.  Gets his drunken, wounded gander.Mather s

ALDEN
Taught you all about witches?

COTTON
 more of a family No.  That s
matter.  My grandfathers burnt 
scores of witches back in Essex.  
And I ve read everything written on 
the subject --
(a bit defensive)
-- in eight languages. 

ALDEN
Well, seeing how you are the expert 
then.  Let me ask you.  How do I 
 a witch?know you aren t

COTTON
(a joke?)
What?

ALDEN
Like you said.  Could be anyone.  
And I have it on very high 
authority -- the witches are 
running the whole show. 

 personal space.Alden steps into Cotton s

ALDEN
And seems to me, you re running the 
show.  So I'll ask you again.  How 
 a Witch?do I know you aren t

Alden s tone, not to mention the very short distance between 
their noses, threatens. And then breaks in an easy smile.

ALDEN
 How do I know?  Cause there aren t
 Harvard.any such things.  G night,

And he walks away, leaving Cotton frozen for a moment at the 
impertinence of the suggestion -- Cotton Mather, a witch?  He 
laughs at the thought.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1330.



From a high window, we can see a silhouette.


Alden goes out onto a small balcony that overlooks Salem.  
Mary follows, closing the French doors behind them.  She 
studies him as he takes in the view.

It's the first moment these once passionate lovers have been 
alone together in more than ten years -- though they are not 
really alone.


The air between them is so charged it seems they might fight 
or fuck right there.  

MARY
I heard you were killed.

ALDEN
How long after you married Sibley?MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1338.


MARY
(ignoring that)
I remember being told once that the 
 last a year. war couldn t

Alden realizes they can be seen, if not heard.

ALDEN
(quietly)
 up to me.Wasn t

Their faces remain placid to anyone watching, but their low 
voices fire with intensity --

MARY
No.  But it was you who stopped 
writing.  Yet I waited for you.  
Years and years without a word... 

He hesitates, trying to keep all emotion from his face, as if 
they were exchanging pleasantries about the weather.

ALDEN
I -- couldn t write.

 smile belies the anger in her voice.Mary s

MARY
Of course.  Too busy saving the 
country.

ALDEN
Not exactly.  I was captured.

Alden is almost unable to get the words out, and his lips 
barely move as he does.

ALDEN
I only recently -- escaped.

He looks down and she follows his glance -- to his open palm 
at the worn silver half-coin lying there.

ALDEN
(coolly -- quietly)
Mashkawi-ikido.s what their   That 
priest man called it.  Wouldn t let 
the others take it from me.  Said 
vows were sacred.  And the universe 
itself kind of a fabric of vows.  
Breaking them carries consequences.  
And causing others to break  em was 
nearly as bad.  
(MORE)MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1339.

ALDEN (CONT'D)
Course, might just be a half a 
silver coin.  And you got no 
shortage of coins now...

Mary holds her smile in place but her eyes flood, as Alden s 
stone walls of emotional reserve suddenly burst --

ALDEN
(now quietly fierce)
Come with me.  Now.  Tonight.  Take 
nothing but yourself.  I have some 
money from my service.  In a bank 
in New York.  We can be together -- 
anywhere -- anywhere but here.

MARY
Here.  Where we were born.  Where 
you said we d die...

ALDEN
Together.s nothing   Without you it 
 -- you --to me.  Unless you aren t
anymore. 

 heart battles her head, her arms reach out of While Mary s
their own accord for him -- when she catches movement out of 
the corner of her eye --

Magistrate Hale opens the French Doors -- putting the dagger 
 moment. in Alden s

HALE
Even you, Mrs. Sibley, have no 
right to monopolize a guest like 
 brought him a Captain Alden.  I ve
rare, wondrous thing -- a ceegar of 
tobacco all the way from Guyana to 
smoke over some brandy.

Alden smiles stiffly and shoves the coin into his pocket.

ALDEN
I m afraid all this civilized 
eating and drinking has laid me 
 out, Magistrate.  A smoke and I d
 wheeled have to steal Mr. Sibley s
chair to get home. 

He looks to Mary, and leaves it an open invitation -- 

ALDEN
Best if I get going...

-- a last light of hope hidden in his eye --MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1340.


MARY
Goodnight, Captain Alden.  I hope 
you enjoyed your homecoming.

-- a light we see blown out as Alden swallows his rising 
emotions and steps back inside.  

Hale casts an arched eye at his hostess, but sees only 
perfectly composed features.  

CUT TO:


Alden shoulders his deerskin bag, and at the edge of the road 
he looks back at the empty house, storing a last look.


Moving past the gravestones -- stopping finally before a wide 
stone with twin sets of stone wings and two names:

John and Sarah Alden.  

Born in the County of Essex in England and died in the town 
of Salem, Massachusetts.  Alden bends down over his parents  
grave.  A quiet moment as he pays his respects.  

Odd sounds break the moment -- SCRAPING, then BRITTLE 
SNAPPING, and a string of BLASPHEMOUS PROFANITY. MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1343.


Alden peers over a nearby tombstone to find Anne Hale -- 
who s snapped a charcoal making a grave rubbing onto a large 
notebook.  He looks down at a rather fine, and for the day 
ultra-realistic, sketch of a horse.

ALDEN
 good.You re

Anne looks up, pleased by the sight of him. 

ANNE
Reverend Lewis says drawing is 
Idolatry.  Like worshipping nature 
or something. 

ALDEN
There are worse things to worship.

She reaches out and takes his big chin in her small hand, 
turning his head to catch the light.  

ANNE
I'd like to draw you.  Especially 
your scar.  

ALDEN
 No time to sit for a portrait, I m
 on my way out of town.afraid.  I m

ANNE
So soon?  Afraid of Witches?  Or 
being taken for one?

Just as he feels the sweet heat radiating from Anne, Alden 
gives her a little smile and moves off.  

Anne studies him as he walks away, then gathers her broken 
charcoals and steps out from around the old Mausoleum -- 

-- only to step straight into Mary.s startled.  Anne 

MARY
I didn t mean to frighten you.

ANNE
 frightened.  Just I wasn t
surprised.

MARY
Yes.  Of course.  A girl brave 
enough to rub gravestones.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1344.


ANNE
 not afraid of death. I m
 afraid of not living.I m

MARY
 because you know nothing of That s
death.  And less of life.

Mary s hand strokes Anne s long, loosening chestnut hair -- a 
charged movement that takes the young girl by surprise.

MARY
I can teach you.  About life.  And 
death.  And many things in between.

 like a deer in the lamp.  Unable to move or breathe.Anne s

MARY
Let me teach you a first lesson.  
Know what killed nearly every woman 
buried here?

Mary gestures at the stone skulls and skeletal angels 
adorning the graves.

MARY
Love.  Most died in childbirth.  
You see, Love is to a woman what 
War is to a man.  The most deadly 
thing they ll do.  Only a fool runs 
quickly to War.  Or love.  Best 
watch yourself.

ANNE
Thank you, Mrs. Sibley.  I can only 
aspire to your happy wisdom.

She clutches her pad tightly and walks off.  Mary watches 
what could almost be her younger self walking proudly away -- 
then glances down at her own hand -- and the long chestnut 
hairs wrappeds hair. around her finger.  Anne 

Mary hides her hand, and the hairs, in her lace hand-warmer.

CUT TO:


Buzzing with farmers, fishermen, and every kind of ware 
seller.  A sudden commotion in the crowd as people move out 
of the way to let a WAGON rattle through the market.  And 
sitting on the back of the wagon --

MERCY LEWISMALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1345.


All eyes in the market on Mercy, with a rope around her 
waist, the other end held by Cotton.  Mercy looks around at 
her former friends and neighbors.  And they instinctively 
shrink back from her.  Her taut, rigid face almost smiles at 
the power.  We see flies crawling on and around her mouth.

COTTON
Though she cannot name a name, or 
point to them.  She will show us.

Cotton leads her through the crowd like a customs officer 
 movement is might lead a contraband-sniffing dog.  Mercy s
stiff and spasmodic, like a broken doll, and is accompanied 
by odd creaks and scrapings from inside her joints.

People turn away from her gaze, but quickly look back as she 
passes -- fascinated and terrified at the notorious girl.  

Mercy almost seems to enjoy her twisted fame -- this power to 
make people cower and move just by looking at them. 

 But then, her eyes lock on someone -- someone who doesn t
 on a bee-line.  look away -- and suddenly she s

As people back away from her, we can see she seems to be 
heading straight toward --

MARY SIBLEY

 By a stall selling expensive imported glass.  Mary doesn t
 turn away -- she continues to look right into the girl s
impossibly black eyes. 

Suddenly Mercy s head pivots 180 degrees, nearly snapping her 
own neck, she SCREAMS an inhuman screech and walks as rapidly 
as her contorted and constricting limbs will allow -- toward 
a booth where still-bloody furs hang from a wooden frame. 

Mercy falls to her knees and begins to convulse, shoves her 
fingers in her mouth and bites down hard.  

Before Cotton can stop her, she chews off the tip of her 
little finger and SPITS it out -- hitting a man in his back.  
She screams again and now the crowd is screaming too.  

She points at the man.  Every eye in the place turns to look 
at the owner of the stall, the man at whose very feet Mercy 
has fallen: 

Giles Corey.

CUT TO BLACK.

END OF ACT THREEMALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1346.


ACT FOUR

FADE IN:


Alden takes a last look back at the town he once planned to 
die in -- and walks away.

The sound of horse and wagon, and the sure knowledge of the 
dust to follow, makes Alden step out of the road.  But the 
wagon stops -- leaving the dust cloud to pass over Alden -- 

ISAAC (O.S.)
Need a ride, Captain?

As the dust clears, Alden sees Isaac with the reins in one 
hand, and a flintlock pointed straight at him in the other.

CUT TO:


As the sun sinks behind one of the seven gables, the shadow 
of the Sibley House rolls cross the Common like spilled ink.

And at the apex of that shadow, almost pulling it like a 
royal train behind her, Mary Sibley walks past gangs of 
people exchanging rumors and anxieties as word has spread: 
 caught the Witch!  Burn the Witch!  They ve

Mary ignores them and steps into --


A dirt road off the main Old Salem Road that cuts around Mt. 
 in the wagon, Dagon and skirts the deep woods.  Isaac s
 head as he drives.flintlock pointed at the back of Alden s

ALDEN
(hitting another rut)
 seen You know Isaac, the road s
 a better days, and a flintlock s
touchy thing.  Mind putting that 
down or pointing it someplace less  
-- vital?

Isaac keeps the gun trained.


Tituba opens the door even before Mary climbs the steps.

TITUBA
 be late.Hurry -- you ll


The old dirt road doesn t so much end as taper down to a foot 
path where Isaac leads Alden on foot into the deep woods.

ALDEN
What are we doing here Isaac?

ISAAC
First time I saw them, I thought I 
was dreaming. 
(MORE)MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1349.

ISAAC (CONT'D)
So I cut myself -- to test. 
(shows ugly scab on palm)
 no dream.  I know people Weren t
 touched.  Shit -- if you think I m
had a fucking F burned in your 
 be a little touched forehead you d
 stupid.  I know too.  But I ain t
things.  And I can follow the Moon 
and stars.  So I came back.  Night 
after night.  And what do you know? 
28 nights later, the Dark of the 
Moon, same place, same time -- 
well, some things just got to be 
seen to be believed.

These deep woods at night are dark as a cave.  

ALDEN
Say you managed to convince me 
witches exist.  What makes you 
 give a shit?think I d

ISAAC
Because I know you, John Alden.  
And I remember -- when the whip 
tore into my back -- I looked out 
and saw your face.  No fear, no 
lust, not even plain relief that it 
wasn t you up there.  No, all I saw 
in your eyes was an angry fire -- 
fire of Justice.  And fire like 
 go out. that don t

Alden ignores this -- reaches his hand out and feels a tree 
in front of him.

ALDEN
If your Witches meet here, they got 
better night eyes than I do.

Isaac crouches and waves at Alden to do the same.

ISAAC
 need night eyes.  The They don t
night is their eyes.  Look at this.

He beckons Alden to squat down and see -- a thick patch of 
strange mushrooms growing out of the black mulch of the 
 your usual mushrooms -- but forest floor.  These aren t
cauliflower-sized excrescence of milky fungal flesh which 
seems to glisten a translucent oily red.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1350.


Isaac pokes the end of the flintlock into the weird fungous 
and slowly pulls it out -- strands of sticky fluorescent goo 
connect it to the earth.

ISAAC
 cover their One night, I seen  em
whole naked selves in this shit.

 nose In lieu of an answer, Alden swiftly flattens Isaac s
with his fist and grabs the flintlock from his hand.  Isaac 
drops to the ground, dazed.  Before Alden can check to see if 
another blow is necessary -- 

-- he sees an approaching GLOW.  He takes cover.  A HORSE 
goes by -- the human-shaped rider has the head of a PIG.  
Pigman holds a lantern in one hand as he goes.  Alden moves 
to follow unseen --


The Pigman rider dismounts.  

Alden tries to get closer in the shadows, crouches behind an 
enormous BLACK TREE, gnarled branches reaching into the 
night.  And from each of these branches hangs small bundles 
of dried sticks and mud, like crude little dolls.

Beyond the tree, the Pigman hurls the lantern into a clearing 
-- WHOOSH -- it hits the ground and sets a BONFIRE alight 
with the effect of a FLASH BOMB.

 knocked to the ground by it. Alden s

As he recovers, we begin to hear MOANS from somewhere in the 
darkness.  Alden stays low, crawls forward on the dark earth, 
 back there without himself being seen.  trying to see who s

A SCUTTLING on the ground in front of his face -- a lizard 
freezes and looks at Alden -- with eyes sewn shut.  

The blind lizard scuttles off.  Alden raises up on his elbows 
and as his eyes adjust to the dark, it s clear these are not 
MOANS of pain -- but pleasure... 

 FIRE burns in a circle around a large darkness The Pigman s
from which the liquid moans of ecstasy rise.  More than a 
dozen naked men and women in a kind of natural, shallow, 
black mud bath.  

Touching, licking, stroking, kissing, sucking, fucking.  A 
dozen people having the most intense orgy since the reign of 
Caligula.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1351.


 believe his eyes: Each couple intensely, even Alden can t
infinitely, absorbed in their own pleasure, as they also 
reach out all around them to touch and connect with the 
others, coupling, now tripling and beyond...

...and as the slippery bodies intertwine, the warm, viscous, 
velvet black fluid is rising around them, making their 
sliding and thrusting, their penetrations and tangles, all 
 the wetter in the flickering, shiny darkness.  Until, it s
impossible to tell where one body ends and another begins. 

As Alden peers into this erotic vortex it takes all his will 
not to fall in.  From the wet, sex-soaked black pit, eerie 
whispers rise:

CHANTING VOICES
Walpurgisnacht.  Pestilentia.  
Maleficarium.  Cruor Innocentia...

And as the words rise, so rise THIRTEEN WITCHES, male and 
female, all naked and dripping with black ichor.  Each wears 
a SEVERED ANIMAL HEAD -- wolf, stag, pig, etc.  

Just as Mercy Lewis described.  

Twelve of them have hands all joined in the middle, all 
holding something together.  And though they all drip with 
the black ichor they rose from, the thing which they hold is 
spotless -- a large WHITE DOVE.  Wings spread by twelve of 
the witches.  Its little heart visibly beating beneath the 
white feathers.

The thirteenth witch -- her beautiful body dripping black, 
face masked by the head of a Stag -- presses a long, sharp 
fingernail into the breast of the white bird. 

Until with a spurt of red on white, the nail suddenly 
 breast -- penetrates the dove s

At that terrible moment, they sense Alden and turn, as one, 
directly toward him.  

And then twelve of the thirteen VANISH into thin air -- the 
man with the head of a swine is the only Witch left.  Alden 
reacts to the impossible sights, takes aim with his pistol.

ALDEN
Stay back!

Pigman rushes him.  Alden FIRES, hitting him in the ear.  The 
Witch squeals horribly and disappears --   

-- leaving Alden alone in the deepest part of the woods, made 
all the darker by the roaring bonfire behind him...MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1352.



s by the  eyes adjust to the darkness and he sees he Alden s
black tree -- the one with all the little dolls hanging form 
the gnarled branches.

Standing beneath them now, in the flickering bonfire light, 
he can see them more clearly.  They are not all the same, but 
each unique.  A tiny patch of cloth, or some artifact to 
identify them -- the end of a cigar, strands of hair, etc.  

For a mad moment it seems this blackened tree contains little 
ragged dolls of all the people of Salem.  And the words of 
Isaac come back to him -- 

ISAAC (V.O.)
They want Salem.  And won't stop 
 all. us fixed they  til

ALDEN
Isaac.

Alden looks around in the darkness for the driver he knocked 
unconscious nearby.

In the fading light of the bonfire he finds him.  He s rolled 
onto his stomach.  But there does seem to be some movement -- 
is he breathing?

Alden reaches out and gently turns Isaac over -- 

-- but he is the human equivalent of a rotten hollowed log -- 
and that movement was not breath but the heaving mass of 
bugs, grubs, and beetles that have impossibly devoured him.

CUT TO BLACK.

END OF ACT FOURMALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1353.


ACT FIVE

FADE IN:


In the center of town, the Witch Panic is in full-swing.  An 
 been ever-growing crowd gathers around Giles Corey, who s
tied and staked to the ground.  Cotton Mather stands over 
him.  The bailiff and two militia men lift HEAVY STONES from 
a cart.  

The atmosphere is beyond tense.  Many not happy to see one of 
their fellow citizens dragged like a roped bull into the 
Common.  Others want blood.  A palpable sense of people on 
the edge of becoming an altogether different beast -- a mob.

COTTON
 want to do this.Please.  I don t

GILES
Then don t.

COTTON
 not a difficult Just plead.  It s
question.  Are you guilty or not?

Giles doesn t respond.  People are yelling insults, arguing.  
A small fight breaks out.

CROWD
Set him free!  Hang the Witch!  You 
em go  make him answer!  Let  can t
to Hell!  etc.

Cotton kneels down beside Giles -- practically begging him. 

COTTON
Be reasonable, man.  I have the 
power to press you for an answer.  
Just say the words, guilty or not 
guilty.  And we can stop all this.

Cotton gestures at the deadly carnival atmosphere, and the 
clot of stout men who stand by the pile of stones.  

GILES
ll hang me  guilty you If I say I m
 not, I before dawn.  If I say I m
throw my fate in the hands of you 
 hold my peace cocksuckers.  I ll
and trust in the Lord.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1354.


He winks at Cotton.  And actually draws some laughs and hoots 
from the crowd.

 be humiliated.  He nods to the stout men.  And Cotton won t
 the first lot of stones are placed on the board atop Giles 
grey-haired chest.

Giles looks stoic, but the weight audibly forces all the 
breath out of him.  And must hurt like hell.  He looks to 
Cotton. 

COTTON
Have you something to say?

Giles nods.  Cotton bends down.

GILES
(defiant whisper)
More stones.


On the highest point Alden can see Salem below -- some kind 
of crowd in the Common.  He looks down the road away from 
town.  And at the dark woods where he saw -- all he saw. 

 walk away this time.Isaac was right.  He can t


As Alden comes over the hill toward the Common, he hears 
shouts and jeers.  Something is happening and, by the sound 
of it, something ugly.  He takes off running.


Cotton stands frozen as the strange and terrible scene rages 
around him.  Alden runs into view, starts pushing through the 
crowd.

ALDEN
 going on?!  Giles!What s

A Militia Man moves to block his way but Alden shoves him 
back.  The men continue to pile stones on Giles  chest.  The 
wood platform creaks under the weight.

ALDEN
Get off him!!  

He races for Giles, frantically pulling stones off his friend 
 all too late.  With a horrible wet crunch, -- but it s
 fatally crushed Giles's chest finally gives way and he s
beneath the weight.MALICE Pilot - "The Vow" 5/2/1355.


TIME SEEMS TO SLOW DOWN:

-- Blood spatters onto Cotton s face.  He wipes it away then 
stares in horror at his hands -- and his shirt -- realizes he 
is covered in Giles  blood. 

He looks up at a high window -- where Mercy Lewis squats in 
the window box, staring down with an idiot grin at Cotton 
 blood.covered in Giles 

Cotton falls to his knees.

-- Alden, mad with rage as he attempts to pull his friend's 
body from the rubble.  He looks from the crushed body to the 
man responsible -- Cotton.  

ALDEN
Sonofabitch!

 held back by the militia men.  He struggles and But Alden s
screams.  

Off the mayhem...


At Mary's windowsill, Mary and Tituba watch the chaos below 
with interest.  


The Old Bawd is turning away a crowd of men young and old.

OLD BAWD
Sorry gents.  All full up. 

FRUSTRATED SAILOR
 Maud.  You got at least a C mon
dozen dollymops in there.

OLD BAWD
All the Girls are busy.  Guess it s 
true.  Death makes people horny.


Candlelight shines from the master bedroom.


 house.Cotton and Alden cross the Common towards Rev. Lewis 

COTTON
One could almost feel sorry for 
them.  Persecuted for centuries. 
Exterminated like rats.  Driven 
from every country on the 
continent... 

