 
DANNY s POV: Seen from the house across the road--a detached 
Barratt-style home, Mock Tudor, behind gates. All is dark inside. 
No car. On the roof--movement. 
 
Pulling back: DANNY s here, in the dark, with a microphone headset 
and a pair of hi-tech binoculars. 
 
 
Tom and Danny are out jogging... 
 
                                        TOM 
        You can t expect every target to lie down and be 
                                      bugged. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            No, Tom, but I don t expect them all to have 
                  countermeasures in their kitchen either. 
 
                                        TOM 
    We knew Osborne was up to something. Now we know he s 
        paranoid about anyone finding out. Whatever it is. 
 
They stop to look at the time on their watches. DANNY is out of 
breath--TOM is hardly sweating. Stretching etc. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I m paranoid about how much extra training you re                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 4
 
              doing. Where s all this energy come from? 
 
                                        TOM 
                  If I told you, I d have to kill you. 
 
TOM runs off--upping the pace. DANNY grits his teeth-- 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        You re already killing me. 
 
 
OSBORNE leaving, kisses CLAIRE goodbye on the step. She does not 
respond. OSBORNE s holding a newspaper. He gets into a Jag parked 
in the driveway. 
 
0833 
 
OSBORNE drives. The paper is on the seat next to him. Large 
headline reads:  RACE WAR LOOMS . 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
        We ll just have to make sure the Runner does what 
        she s paid for. Osborne s a background man, always 
                            keeps his hands clean. 
 
OSBORNE pulls up outside a warehouse that is headed  Osborne Waste 
Management . 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
      A miracle considering how much shit passes through his 
                                      fingers. 
 
 
Gnomes in the garden of this mock-Tudor detached house. 
 
 
OSBORNE, WATSON and NICK walk to the door. BRIAN remains seated. 
 
                                        NICK 
      It s so nice to meet someone who cares so much about 
                                  this country. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                              (eyes him carefully) 
                              So you keep saying. 
 
                                        WATSON 
      These problems, Rob. In Leeds. Just how sure are you 
                              ... they ll happen? 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 16
 
OSBORNE smiles-- WATSON s clearly not wholly in the loop here. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
            Educated guess, Bill. And no-one ever blamed 
      Nostradamus when the bad news arrived. Remember that. 
 
WATSON stares at OSBORNE. NICK looks glowingly at OSBORNE, in 
total agreement. WATSON seems more uncomfortable--clutches his 
briefcase tight. And we re pushing in on that pen again... 
 
 
TOM strides away from ELLIE s place. Mobile to ear. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  You paged me. 
                                      (listens) 
                                        When? 
 
UP AT THE WINDOW 
 
We can see ELLIE. Ghostly, forlorn. Watching him go. 
 
 
TOM and HARRY stride towards HARRY s car with driver. 
 
                                        TOM 
      I had the wrong wallet with me tonight. I almost paid 
    for dinner as Tom Quinn. Which seeing as Ellie thinks 
      she s going out with Matthew Archer right now might 
                    have seemed a little odd to her. 
                                        (beat) 
                    I can t do this for much longer. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    You ve not had a problem before. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I ve not felt like this about anyone before. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          If you d told us the truth a little earlier, of 
                course... the vetting would be over now. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  I just wanted to keep things simple. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Always a mistake. In my experience. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 18
 
HARRY smiles encouragingly and disappears into his car, as TOM 
walks off down the street. 
 
 
Dawn: TOM is torn between two landmarks--MI5 and MI6--as he puts a 
call in to ELLIE. The scale of London seems to amplify his 
isolation. Intercut conversation (ELLIE in bed): 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 21
 
                                        TOM 
                  I have to go away for a while.    
                                      (silence) 
      Someone dropped out, I have to step in. It s a fact-
                finding tour. USA and Japan. I m sorry. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                      So am I. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I ll be on a work mobile. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                  Will it work? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
      Then maybe you can use it to call me. Maybe you can 
      start to tell me what the hell s going on, Matthew. 
 
The line goes dead. TOM breathes deeply. Walks away--north. 
 
 
Early morning traffic streams into London on the other side. 
 
 
Anonymous detached property on a housing estate. Most still for 
sale. 
 
                                    HELEN V.O. 
                  You sure you don t want the big bed? 
 
 
A small low-rise building, possibly an ex-library. Car park 
outside has a few occupants. 
 
 
A riot is on the streets--over-turned cars. Use old news footage, 
poss. Bradford... Total mayhem. 
 
                                      REPORTER 
      The rioting continued long into the night--hospitals 
                      reporting multiple casualties-- 
 
 
TOM looks around... no witnesses. Drags on a cigarette--employee 
on a fag break. Drops a pack of 10. Bending down, he casually 
inserts a nail into the tyres of the white Merc. 
 
 
CLAIRE is pulling out of the carpark. She smiles and waves at TOM 
and HELEN, who wave her off. Through their smiles: 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 30
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Stage one. 
 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 34
 
Unknown POV: TOM works on the Merc. TOM becomes aware, stops 
working--looks up: OSBORNE stands before him. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                            That s my wife s car. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Oh--you re Claire s husband? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
            Well deduced, Holmes. And who might you be? 
 
TOM wipes up, goes to shake hands. OSBORNE declines. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Steve Wilkes. Claire asked me to check her oil. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                So long as that s all you re checking. 
 
CLAIRE walks out with SAMMY in tow. HELEN follows. OSBORNE sees 
her--and clearly likes what he sees. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                          What are you doing here? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
        Just passing. Saw Mr Fixit here with his hands all 
      over your bodywork. Thought I d ask him exactly what 
                            he thinks he s doing. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                Steve, Sue, this is Robert. My husband. 
 
He shakes HELEN s hand--her presence lightens his mood. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                    (to Helen) 
                            Been in the area long? 
 
TOM cleans up. Stands next to HELEN--married couple front. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Few months. We ve just bought a place in Abbey 
                                      Crescent. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                            Where were you before? 
 
                                        TOM 
      We were renting. Pokey little place just down Mervyn 
                                        Road-- 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 35
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                    They re doing a great job, Robert. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                Yeah, well. See you later sweetheart. 
 
OSBORNE moves to kiss CLAIRE. She makes no move to kiss him, so he 
kisses her cheek. Emboldened by her defiance-- 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
              Why don t you both come round for dinner? 
                                    (to Sammy) 
                  That would be lovely, wouldn t it? 
 
TOM and HELEN smile. SAMMY nods. OSBORNE s been pincered. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Sure--if it s not too much trouble-- 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
        New to the area, it s good to meet people. How s 
                            tomorrow night for you? 
 
Grins all round. Even OSBORNE forces out a smile. 
 
 
BRIAN at the door of a house, talking with an OLD WOMAN. 
 
                                    OLD WOMAN 
          They ve moved, love, they re up Abbey Crescent I 
                          think. That new estate. 
 
BRIAN leaves. We follow the OLD WOMAN back 
 
INSIDE THE HALLWAY 
 
Where she calmly shuts the door and picks up the phone. Speed 
dials a number. It s picked up immediately. 
 
                              OLD WOMAN (CONT D) 
          Oh, hello dear. It s Rosie. I just got tickled. 
 
 
TOM and HELEN stand frozen as a screaming match progresses inside. 
HELEN is visibly shaking. TOM takes her hand, and they walk away. 
Surreptiously--TOM dials a number. 
 
                                        TOM 
      The name is Wilkes, I ll have to cancel the cab for 
                                      tomorrow. 
 
He hangs up. Checks his watch--phew. Just in time. 
 
 
HELEN looks out of the window--a van is pulling up across the 
road. A Garfield sticky-model in the driver s side window. A CAT 
IN THE VAN. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                              (into phone, nerves) 
          Steve? There s a van outside. With a cat in it. 
 
                                      TOM VO.. 
                                    On my way. 
 
 
HELEN walking along, pleased with herself. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                  (into phone) 
                          I think she s on her way. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                      Go home. Pack. We re leaving. 
 
 
A large industrial estate with garages and loading bays. 
 
 
Between the gravesites wanders CLAIRE. Clutching a bunch of 
flowers for protection. Spies a bench. Sits down, nervous. From 
the other direction, a man. CLAIRE stands up... the man turns away 
to look at a grave. 
 
                                      TOM O.S. 
                                        Hello. 
 
CLAIRE whips round--sees TOM. Relief. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                            Oh, it s you. Jesus H. 
                                        (beat) 
        I m sorry to be rude, Steve, but I m meant to be 
                            meeting someone here. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Claire. It s me. 
 
CLAIRE looks--I know it s you. Then: oh. It s YOU. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                What s going on? 
 
He walks off. CLAIRE follows, confused. 
 
                                        TOM 
    Do you know what your husband does in his spare time? 
                            (Claire stops, stares) 
    Claire. I have another job I d like to tell you about. 
      I work for a government department. We know that your 
    husband is trying to start a race war in this country. 
 
CLAIRE starts crying... walking away. TOM keeps pace. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
      Before you do anything silly, I want you to know that 
      this was the only way we could contact you. This was 
      the only way we could be sure you could be on side. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                        What? Are you arresting me? 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 51
 
                                        TOM 
      We re not the police, Claire. Okay? This isn t about 
                              you, it s about Rob. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                              What do you want? 
 
                                        TOM 
    I want to help you. I want to get you sorted enough so 
            you can leave Robert. Go anywhere. With Sam. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                              How can I do that? 
 
                                        TOM 
        You can tell us what your husband s up to. Does he 
        ever tell you what he s planning? Dates? People? 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                    ..Sometimes. 
 
                                        TOM 
      That kind of information helps us stop not just him, 
        but everyone he s working with. Do you see? If you 
      could be our eyes and ears... Claire, he s trying to 
      incite a war on British soil, a civil war. We need to 
                                    stop him. 
 
CLAIRE is nothing but questions now... 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                        Susan? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      She s nothing to do with this. 
                              (cuts to the chase) 
      Six hundred pounds a week. In a bank account in your 
        name. In return you ll tell us everything you know 
          about your husband s activities. You can leave 
        information for us here, or anywhere else you think 
                                  would be safe. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
          I need to go home, I need to think about it... 
 
                                        TOM 
        No. If you don t want to help, you ll never see me 
      again. If you agree, you ll never see me again. But 
      someone will contact you and become your go-between. 
      You can still pass messages to me through them. But 
      you and I will never meet again. I ll give you five 
          minutes. Okay? I ll be over by the car. In five                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 52
 
                  minutes and one second, I m leaving. 
 
He walks away. CLAIRE is left alone with the graves. 
 
 
CLAIRE approaches TOM, who glances nervously at his watch. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                Anywhere I like? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Anywhere within reason. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                        Spain? 
 
                                        TOM 
            Spain is no problem. But only when we ve got 
                              everything we need. 
                                      (silence) 
      A good choice, too. Spanish attitude to kids is very 
                                      healthy. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                              (not looking at him) 
                    Don t patronise me about my life. 
 
TOM nods. Humbled. In the sky, the moon has risen. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  I m sorry Claire. I m nervous too. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                        (beat) 
                                        Okay. 
 
 
TOM and HELEN hauled out onto the tarmac. Moon is risen high in 
the sky now. They re prodded towards a back door. 
 
MOVING 
to a messy corridor... leading to-- 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 54
 
 
TOM rolls up into a crouching run--no idea of time, place, 
anything but getting away-- 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 58
 
 
Coughing, bleeding, running, wheezing--TOM --his hands now untied-
-sprinting away from the scene of fire, smoke, gunfire and 
devastation behind him. Side streets beckon. 
 
Godforsaken industrial estate. Windblown, dark. He cuts through a 
gap between units--onto a main drag beyond which is total, pure, 
black-- 
 
To his right, a construction site. To his left, a wall. footsteps 
behind him. He ducks over the wall. 
 
 
TOM runs... Street names, meaningless. The industrial estate goes 
on forever. Reeling, reeling... 
 
A phonebox, like the Holy Grail, fifty metres away. 
 
Choking back tears now, sprints through shadows. Checks once, 
twice--the streets are empty for now. He opens the door. 
 
 
Phone is totally fucked. Gum stuck everywhere. No receiver. TOM 
turns away as a car passes--after the headlights fade, he runs out 
again... to the other side of the phone box (it s a two-sided 
one). 
 
Enters. It s working. Hands behind his back... dials, feeling for 
the digits... scoops up the receiver with his shoulder... We hear 
the BT  number unobtainable  sound, then: 
 
                                  BT OPERATOR 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
But TOM seems unperturbed. The sound again... 
 
                            BT OPERATOR (cont d) 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
TOM waits patiently. Mouths  two . Memories cut in--he starts to 
cry once more. Wrenches it back. Control. Grim, almost demonic 
determination. Willing the phone on. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 59
 
                            BT OPERATOR (cont d) 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
Car lights flash in reflection. TOM turns again--the phone slips 
from his shoulder... clanking against the side... 
 
                            BT OPERATOR (cont d) 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
TOM raises the phone up again, bends over, almost double, scooping 
the phone back towards his neck area. 
 
                            BT OPERATOR (cont d) 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
The BT OPERATOR continues. The phone clicks for a second. Starts 
to ring. It s picked up immediately. Busy office. 
 
                                  TELEPHONE VOICE 
                                        Hello? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Greensleeves. SOS. 
 
                                  TELEPHONE VOICE 
                Tracing. Any idea of your orientation? 
 
                                        TOM 
      It s all I can do to fucking well stand up! I need a 
                                safe house. Now. 
 
                                  TELEPHONE VOICE 
                                  Hold please. 
 
TOM closes his eyes--HOLD! Another car, slow, this time... scoots 
past... and that bloody phone is slipping away from his ear now... 
he slams himself against the side of the booth. The receiver 
slides back towards his ear. 
 
                            TELEPHONE VOICE (CONT'D) 
    Callbox is Romford grid reference G-ML9185. Safe house 
                at G-ML9293. Stand by for directions. 
 
 
The phone hangs from the cord. 
 
 
TOM s powering over grass and bush. 
 
 
Post memorial service for HELEN, people mill around outside the 
chapel. Everyone s in black. HELEN s parents in numb grief. 
DANNY S MUM too. 
 
                                  VICAR (V.O.) 
      Helen brought sunshine wherever she went. She was a 
      credit, not only to the Department of the Environment 
          that she was so committed to, but also to those 
      colleagues, those friends, who worked alongside her.                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 66
 
            To whom her loyalty was unquestioning. And 
                                    unflinching. 
 
We re pushing in on TOM--and behind his eyes, it s all starting to 
sink in... and in amongst the grief, guilt. 
 
 
OSBORNE gets in his car and roars off--past a van. The driver is 
talking on his cellphone. 
 
 
We re close on TOM now. 
 
                                  VICAR (V.O.) 
      And to lose her so tragically... so needlessly, in a 
                                  car accident-- 
 
And now we know. Cover up. TOM s eyes are flint. He glances at 
DANNY. ZOE. HARRY. TESSA. 
 
 
OSBORNE s car powers along. An underpass looms ahead-- 
 
 
OSBORNE s car enters the underpass. As we fly over we might just 
see a flash of white light and the screeching of tyres-- 
 
We reach the other side ... but OSBORNE s car does not appear. 
 
                                    VICAR V.O. 
      It makes each and every one of us ask simply,  why ? 
 
 
Mingling crowds get ready to head off to a reception. Tears, 
hugging. Some distance between work colleagues and obvious 
schoolfriends. ZOE comforts JED, who is inconsolable. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 67
 
A car pulls up and, unseen by most of the crowd, a man approaches 
HARRY. Whispers in his ear. HARRY nods. The man departs. TOM has 
noticed the man. His presence means a lot to TOM--and he reads in 
the rest. 
 
