 
     The Enterprise as it is traveling at impulse speed. 
 
 
     The Enterprise moving along at impulse speed. 
 
 
     The Enterprise comes to a complete stop. 
 
 
     The Enterprise pulls out of frame. 
 
 
     Another angle as the Enterprise approaches from a long 
     distance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


                                                                                                                    Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net  
                 STAR TREK: "Q Who?"-2/28/89 - ACT ONE           13. 
 
      15   CONTINUED: 
 
         RIKER (V.O.) 
       First officer's log. Stardate 
       (xx). We have not been able to 
       determine why, or how, Captain 
       Picard left the Enterprise. We 
       can't even be certain he is in 
       the missing shuttle, although that 
       is the assumption on which we are 
       proceeding. For the last six 
       hours we have been searching 
       without success. 
 
 
     The Enterprise is at a dead stop. 
 
      20   OMMITTED 
 
 
     The Enterprise is struck by a great surge of energy 
     and streaks off. 
 
 
     The Enterprise comes out of the spin and stops. 
 
 
     The Enterprise is moving through this new section of 
     the galaxy. 
 
         PICARD (V.O.) 
       Captain's log, supplemental. The 
       entity Q has flung the Enterprise 
       to a distant part of the galaxy, 
       which we are going to take the 
       opportunity to explore. 
 
 
     As the great Borg ship approaches the Enterprise. Then 
     stops. 
 
 

                                                                                                                    Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net  
 
                STAR TREK: "Q Who?" - 2/24/89 - ACT TWO          24. 
 
 
     The Enterprise in this new section of the galaxy -- with 
     the Borg ship nearby. 
 
 
     An energy beam from the Borg ship holds the Enterprise. 
 
 
     The pin-point phasers from the Enterprise hit into the 
     Borg ship. But the force holding the Enterprise does 
     not release. 
 
 
     The Enterprise and the Borg ship. Another beam leaves 
     the Borg ship and makes contact with the Enterprise. 
 
 
     A CLOSER ANGLE as the Borg ship cores out a piece of 
     the Enterprise hull. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                    Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net  
               STAR TREK: "Q Who?" - 2/24/89 - ACT THREE         33. 
 
      42   OMMITTED 
 
 
     The beam has cut away a section of the Enterprise and 
     is now taking it back to the Borg ship. 
 
 
     The phaser blasts rip again and again into the Borg 
     ship - the beam holding the section of the Enterprise 
     disappears into the Borg ship. Another volley from the 
     Enterprise pounds the Borg ship. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                    Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net  
                STAR TREK: "Q Who?"-2/27/89 - ACT THREE          33A. 
 
 
     The Enterprise, still near the severely damaged Borg 
     ship. 
 
         PICARD (V.O.) 
       Captain's log, supplemental. 
       We have been attacked without 
       provocation by an alien race which 
       Guinan calls the Borg. Hopefully, 
       we have neutralized their vessel. 
       Commander Riker is leading an away 
       team in an attempt to learn more 
       about them. 
 
 
     The Enterprise streaks away -- leaving the visibly 
     battered Borg vessel in its wake. 
 
 
     As the photon leaves the Enterprise. 
 
 
     The Enterprise is moving at maximum warp followed by 
     the Borg ship. 
 
         PICARD (V.O.) 
       Captain's log supplemental. We 
       are unable to maintain the gap 
       between the Enterprise and the 
       Borg ship. 
 
 
     The Enterprise at maximum warp. As the missile arrives 
     -- but instead of striking the ship, it forms a kind of 
     umbrella which engulfs the Enterprise. 
 
 
     A similiar missle leaves the Borg ship and streaks 
     toward the Enterprise. 
 
 
     As the photons leave the Enterprise en route to the 
     Borg ship. The tordedoes explode, but the Borg ship 
     is undamaged. 
 
 
     As the missile from the Borg ship hits the Enterprise. 
 
 
     The Borg ship closes on the Enterprise. It fires a 
     beam at the Enterprise. Which hits in the area of the 
     nacelles. The Enterprise comes out of warp. 
 
 
     With the same explosion of speed which got us here -- the 
     Enterprise is flung back to where it started. 
 
 
     comes to a stop. 
 
 
     As the Enterprise moves off to the starbase. 
 
