 
     Cruises at warp speed as we hear: 
 
         PICARD (V.O.) 
       Captain's log, Stardate 42723.8. 
       The Enterprise is en route to the 
       Epsilon Nine Sector for 
       astronomical survey of a new 
       pulsar cluster. In the meantime, 
       Ensign Crusher will be diverting 
       to Starbase five one five for 
       progressive Starfleet exams... 
 
 
     comes out of warp, decelerating to impulse speed while 
 
      6    OMITTED 
 
 
     the shuttle exits the Shuttle Bay. 
 
 
     flashes past at warp seven while 
 
 
     decelerates 
 
 
     hurtling past us at impulse speed while: 
 
 
     as it maintains its position near the Mondor while 
 
 
     remains in position, in some proximity to the Mondor. 
 
 
     continues on its journey while 
 
 
     continues its impulse-speed journey while 
 
 
     remains positioned near the Pakled ship Mondor while 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                 Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net  
            STAR TREK: "Samaritan Snare" - 3/8/89 - ACT TWO      26. 
 
 
     remains in view of the Pakled's Mondor. 
 
 
     continues cruising at impulse speed while 
 
 
     are as before while 
 
 
 
 
 


                                                                                                                 Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net            STAR TREK: "Samaritan Snare" - 3/8/89 - ACT THREE     34. 
 
 
     hasn't moved, still in sight of the Mondor while 
 
 
 


                                                                                                                 Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net  
           STAR TREK: "Samaritan Snare" - 3/8/89 - ACT THREE     38. 
 
 
     Picard and Wesley approach the entrance to this 
     high-tech Starfleet facility: 
 
         PICARD 
       You don't want to be late for your 
       exams, Ensign. 
 
         WESLEY 
       I've still got some time, sir. 
 
         PICARD 
       Why do I get the feeling you're 
       acting like some kind of escort? 
 
         WESLEY 
       Doctor Pulaski asked me to make 
       sure you actually went inside. 
 
         PICARD 
       That woman. She would. 
 
         WESLEY 
       Sir? 
 
         PICARD 
       What is it? 
 
         WESLEY 
       I enjoyed our trip together. 
 
     Picard's momentarily taken aback; the young man 
     actually cares about him. 
 
         PICARD 
       So did I. 
 
     After a brief, moment of mutual feeling, Picard turns 
     and heads into the medical facility as we GO TO: 
 
 
 
 


                                                                                                                 Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net  
         STAR TREK: "Samaritan Snare" - 3/8/89 - ACT THREE     40. 
 
 
     hovers squarely in front of the Mondor. 
 
 
     maintains its position within sight of the Mondor while 
 
 
     remains in position. The Enterprise in proximity while 
 
 
     hangs close to the Mondor while 
 
 
     fires a heretofore unseen, unimagined blast of crimson 
     energy field from the leading edge of the nacelles, 
     fairly enveloping the Mondor in a huge, daunting shaft 
     of red light, accompanied by a ghostly ROAR and now 
 
 
     streaks off at warp nine as we GO TO 
 
 
     The medical center 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                 Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net                 STAR TREK: "Samaritan Snare" - 3/8/89 - ACT FIVE          62. 
 
 
     cruises in orbit above Starbase five one five while 
 
 
 
 
 


                                                                                                                 Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net  
                STAR TREK: "Samaritan Snare" - 3/8/89 - ACT FIVE          63. 
 
 
     warps out of orbit as we 
 
             FADE OUT: 
 
                              END OF ACT FIVE                          
 
                                  THE END                              
 


                                                                                                                 Converted to .pdf for pdfscreenplays.net 