
      TWO YELLOW EYES blink in slow motion, lids gradually closing, 
      lashes delicately brushing together and then pulling apart.

      Cold breath pluming out from behind his fangs, Scott glances 
      from Tyhurst in one truck to Argent in the other. Then to the 
      confused and frightened face behind the windows of the bus--

      Allison. Unable to take her eyes off him.

      The pulsing BEAT of DANCE MUSIC drifts out through the walls 
      of the school, rising up, gaining in tempo, thumping faster 
      and faster until--

      Argent s door opens and the CLICK of metal sends NORMAL SOUND 
      AND TIME exploding back into Scott s ears. 

      With no other choice, he leaps up, all eyes following him. 
      Landing on top of the bus, he bounds over it and disappears 
      into the darkness while--


      In the middle of the shadowy lacrosse field, a terrified 
      Stiles looks up from Lydia s unconscious and bloodied body to 
      Peter crouched over her.

                                  STILES
                    No. We can t just leave her here.

                                  PETER
                    You re coming with me, Stiles. You 
                    don t have a choice.

                                  STILES
                    Then kill me. I don t care.

      Peter eyes him, head craning forward as if to determine 
      Stiles s conviction by scent or heartbeat.

                                  PETER
                          (with a satisfied nod)
                    Call your friend. Tell Jackson 
                    where she is. That s all you get.        TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/112.

        CONTINUED:22

      With a trembling hand, Stiles pulls his phone from his coat.


      Allison steps out of the bus, movements slow and deliberate. 
      Her heels click down onto the pavement, hand slipping away 
      from the door as her knees buckle. 

      Just before she can fall, Argent is there with an arm around 
      her. She blinks up at him as if not recognizing him.

                                  ARGENT
                    It s all right. You re okay.

      But looking into his eyes, she slowly shakes her head as if 
      to respond that she s not okay. Not at all okay.


      Racing through the woods, Scott runs faster than humanly 
      possible. Sport coat tossing to the leaves, he reverts back 
      to human form with each desperate bound and leap.


      Tyhurst backs his truck out from between the buses while 
      Argent quickly guides Allison toward his own vehicle. She 
      doesn t cry, doesn t say a word.

                                  ARGENT
                    Come on. We need to get you out of 
                    here.

      Allison gets in and he SLAMS the passenger side door shut.


      Tumbling through leaves and brush, Scott comes crashing to a 
      halt. Gasping, he pulls himself up.

      With each blink of his eyes, the IMAGE OF ALLISON AT THE 
      WINDOW flashes before him. The look on her face as she sees 
      him, the truth dawning on her.

      Hands digging into the dirt, every muscle in his body tenses 
      up in pure agony. Head tilting to the sky, Scott opens his 
      mouth to cry out--


      SCREAMS BURST over the parking lot of the school. Girls point 
      in terror and heads snap around to look at the nightmarish 
      sight stepping out of the woods.        TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/113.

        CONTINUED:77

                                    JACKSON
                    Somebody help me! Help me!

      Jackson races between the cars with Lydia in his arms, her 
      dress in tatters and saturated in blood. His SHOUTS for help 
      become louder and more urgent, even reaching the ears of--


      With Allison in the passenger seat, Kate fires up the engine 
      of her car. Argent approaches from the walkway to see them 
      off. He bends down to the open window on Allison s side, but 
      Kate leans over to talk first.

                                  KATE
                    You know you can t do this without 
                    me. You re not going to find him on 
                    your own.

      Ignoring her, Argent leans down to speak to Allison at the 
      open window.

                                  ARGENT
                    We re going to talk about 
                      everything. I promise. Call me when 
                    you get there.

      He retreats a few paces to watch Kate peels out of the 
      driveway. His wife steps up behind him.

                                  MRS. ARGENT
                    Is she right? Can you find the 
                    Alpha?

                                  ARGENT
                    No. But Scott McCall can. And I 
                    know how to find him.

                                                                          FADE OUT:


                                  END OF ACT ONE        TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/118.


                                        ACT TWO

      FADE IN:


      Under the moonlight, a shadow falls over a rock precipice 
      that offers a vantage point looking down over Beacon Hills.

      Shivering in the cold, Scott steps out to gaze over his 
      hometown. He approaches the edge and kneels down.

      Placing his hands on the ground he closes his eyes, preparing 
      to do something utterly desperate.

                                  SCOTT
                          (to himself)
                    Please let this work.

      He tilts his head down and draws in a deep breath, back 
      arching up. His ears begins to grow, tapering into points. 
      Fangs appear just over his lower lip. When he finally gazes 
      up with yellow eyes--

      He s transformed.

      A werewolf once again, every muscle in his body tenses as he 
      opens his mouth wide and lets loose a powerful HOWL into the 
      night.

      The sound rises up past the woods of Beacon Hills, sending a 
      flock of BIRDS scattering from the trees.


      On his hands and knees, Scott gasps for air, back heaving 
      with each intake. He looks out to the town, waiting for a 
      response.

      But he hears nothing.

      Pulling himself to his feet, he steps to the edge and 
      concentrates. Trying to grab a hint of a response.

      Still nothing.      TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1115.

      CONTINUED:2222

      Finally, he retreats back from the edge in a moment of 
      hopeless defeat. Turning away, he starts heading for the 
      trail and--

      He stops. Ears twitching up, he holds his breath and slowly 
      cocks his head. A SOUND whispers through the wind, hurtling 
      toward him--

      The sound of Derek howling a reply.


      Moving with superhuman speed, Scott runs, propelled through 
      the woods, racing to follow Derek s call.


      Scott runs. Breath gasping out of him, he races as fast as a 
      human can. And then faster and faster until suddenly, his 
      body arcs downward and he's no longer running, but loping at 
      an incredible speed.


      The burned and seemingly abandoned Hale house lies in almost 
      perfect silence in the darkness. Until a teenager s shoes 
      arrive crushing leaves underfoot.

      Scott peers out from behind a tree, trying to let his senses 
      guide him. He steps toward the house to approach.

      But he pauses. 

      And then it s like he s almost magnetically pulled to the 
      left. Moving further and further from the house, he enters 
      the woods, finding a trail and then something else--

      A MINE SHAFT ENTRANCE. Branches and brush cover the opening 
      leading down into absolute darkness.


      Scott pulls Derek out of the mine shaft entrance. With his 
      leather jacket on him now, Derek is still weakened, moving 
      slowly, breathing hard. His hand goes to the marks in his 
      side where the electrode pins were placed.

                                  DEREK
                    Hold on. Something doesn t feel 
                    right.

                                  SCOTT
                    What do you mean?

                                  DEREK
                    I mean something doesn t feel 
                    right. Getting out of there was... 
                    I don t know. Kind of like it was--      TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1131.

      CONTINUED:3939

                                  SCOTT
                    Don t say too easy. People say too 
                    easy and then bad things happen.

      But Derek keeps throwing nervous glances to the strangely 
      quiet woods.

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    You think finding you was easy? 
                    Getting away from Allison s Dad? 
                    None of this has been easy. So if 
                    for two seconds something is going 
                    right, can we not question it? Can 
                    we just shut up and thank God we 
                    have the tiniest bit of luck for 
                    once? 

                                  DEREK
                    Yeah, okay. You re right.

      They start forward again when they hear the sudden sound of 
      SOMETHING SOARING THROUGH THE AIR. Derek snaps his head up 
      with a pained gasp.

      An ARROW sticks through his jacket under his collar bone.

      Time seems to slow down as he shoves Scott away from him, 
      trying to push him out of the line of fire.

      Scott s eyes focus with incredible speed and accuracy to a 
      ridge just up the hill where a DARK SILHOUETTE pulls back the 
      drawstring on a black COMPOUND BOW.

                                  KATE
                    Now the leg.

      One eye shut as she aims, Allison nocks the arrow, pulls it 
      back and lets it fly.

      Derek CRIES OUT when the second arrow goes through his leg 
      and sends him crashing to the ground. 

      A stunned Scott flinches as if the arrow had hit him instead.

                                  KATE (CONT D)
                    The flash bolt. Now.

      In a mere second, Allison has the new arrow with a conical-
      shaped FLASH BOLT attached to the end nocked in the center of 
      the drawstring.

                                  DEREK
                    Your eyes--Scott!      TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1132.

      CONTINUED:3939

      But the boy only stares in shock as the girl he loves aims 
      the next arrow. He doesn t even raise his hands to protect 
      himself as--

      The FLASH BOLT EXPLODES into the tree next to him. The WHITE 
      HOT FLARE blinds him sending him staggering back.

      Hitting the leaves and dirt, the world around him burns with 
      iridescent flares. Then, impossibly, Derek is on his feet. He 
      grabs Scott, dragging him toward the house.

      PAST THEM, Allison follows Kate down the ridge toward the two 
      retreating young men.

                                  KATE
                    See? Natural talent.

      The bow at her side, Allison s eyes are locked on Scott as he 
      and Derek reach the yard just in front of the house. Derek 
      collapses, broken arrow shafts still jutting out of him.

                                  DEREK
                    Scott, go!

      But Scott s own eyes flutter, still unable to see anything. 
      Just a silhouetted figure coming toward him.

                                  SCOTT
                    Allison, I can explain.

                                    ALLISON
                    Stop lying. For once, stop lying.

                                  SCOTT
                    I was trying to tell you the truth 
                    at the formal. I was going to tell 
                    you everything. Because everything 
                    I said, everything I did--

                                    ALLISON
                    Was to protect me?

                                  SCOTT
                    Yes.

                                    ALLISON
                    I don t believe you.

                                  KATE
                    Thank God. Now shoot him before I 
                    have to shoot myself.

      Allison throws her a look of surprise.      TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1133.

      CONTINUED:3939

                                    ALLISON
                    You said we were going to catch 
                    them.

                                  KATE
                    And we did that. Now we re going to 
                    kill them.

      Kate withdraws a Glock from her jacket and chambers a round. 
      She approaches Derek and with a casualness that is utterly 
      terrifying, FIRES a round right into him.

      Allison gasps as Derek s body drops back to the ground.

                                  KATE (CONT D)
                    See? It s not that hard.

      She looks up at Allison. And the teenage girl seems to now 
      finally see her favorite aunt for who she really is. A pure 
      and unrepentant sociopath.

                                  KATE (CONT D)
                    Okay, I know that look. That s the 
                    you re going to have do this 
                    yourself look.

      She turns the gun on Scott, aiming at his head.

                                    ALLISON
                    What are you doing? Kate?

      Vision returned, Scott peers down the barrel of the gun.

                                  KATE
                    Love those brown eyes.

      She begins to pull back on the trigger.

                                  ARGENT
                    Kate.

      Argent steps out of the shadows. He holds a gun as well. But 
      aimed at his sister.

                                  ARGENT (CONT D)
                    I know what you did. Put the gun 
                    down.

      Kate s eyes slip momentarily to the house. Both Allison and 
      Argent notice it.

                                  KATE
                    I did what I was asked to do.      TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1134.

      CONTINUED:3939

                                  ARGENT
                    No one asked you to murder innocent 
                    people. There were children in that 
                    house. Ones who were human. Look at 
                    what you re doing now. You re 
                    pointing a gun at a sixteen year-
                    old boy with no proof he s spilled *
                    human blood. We go by the code: *
                    Nous chassons ceux qui nous 
                    chassent.

                                    ALLISON
                          (to herself)
                    We hunt the ones who hunt us.

                                  ARGENT
                    Now put the gun down...

      He raises his own weapon.

                                  ARGENT (CONT D)
                    Before I put you down.

      Seething, but unable to do anything else, Kate finally begins 
      to lower the gun. And as she lowers it, Argent notices 
      something behind her.

      The door to the Hale house CREAKING open.

      The wind whistles around them. Derek and Scott both look up. 
      At the exact same time, their eyes begin GLOWING. A response 
      to the presence of their pack leader.

                                  ARGENT (CONT D)
                    Allison, get back.

                                    ALLISON
                          (a whisper)
                    What is it?

      Scott peers into the darkness beyond the door.

                                  SCOTT
                    It s the Alpha...

                                                                          FADE OUT:


                                  END OF ACT FIVE      TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1135.


                                        ACT SIX

      FADE IN:


      Argent s eyes whip from shadow to shadow as Kate steps near 
      him. He glances to his daughter.

                                  ARGENT
                    Get out of here. Run.

      Something BLURS PAST him. His gun clatters to the ground. An 
      instant later his body falls next to it, unconscious.

      Allison SCREAMS. But then knocks backward, a BLUR hurtling in 
      front of her, knocking her compound bow right out of her 
      hands and across the yard.

      Scott darts forward, but his feet lift off the ground. In a 
      flash, he s tumbling to the leaves with a PAINED CRY.

      Kate whips her gun around, eyes searching.

                                  KATE
                    Come on...

      She FIRES into the shadows.

                                  KATE (CONT D)
                    Come on!

      She spins as Peter appears right next to her, grabbing her 
      wrist. Gun FIRING round after round, he simply twists her arm 
      up with his superior strength.

      Kate screams as Peter BREAKS her arm. Pulling the weapon out 
      of her hand he lifts her off her feet and drags her back 
      toward the house.

                                    ALLISON
                    No--

      She runs forward, charging up the steps and into the house 
      after them.


      SMASHING THROUGH the wall of the house, Scott tumbles back 
      across the yard. When he rolls to a stop, he gazes up to 
      see...

      The Alpha coming out of the side of the house. He spots 
      Allison trying to wake her father, to get back to 
      consciousness. But then--

      LIGHTS BLAZE over the Alpha. The two headlights on Jackson s 
      Porsche as he BEEPS the horn from the driver s seat.

      The creature whips its head around just in time to see--

      Stiles rear back and--with all of his strength--he hurls 
      something right at the Alpha. But the creature catches it, 
      the object landing perfectly in its palm. And that object is 
      a glass beaker filled with liquid--

      A MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Resting harmlessly in its hand.

                                  STILES
                    Oh damn.

      But a shout rises from his side.*

                                  SCOTT
                    Allison!

      She looks up to see Scott throwing her COMPOUND BOW toward *
      her. She catches it.

      The Alpha glances from the beaker in confusion to Allison who *
      quickly and expertly nocks an arrow.

      Realizing what s happening, the Alpha turns to throw the 
      Molotov Cocktail just as the arrow flies.

      But Allison s aim is perfect. The beaker SHATTERS in the 
      Alpha s hand, arrow SMASHING right through the glass.     TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1137A.

      CONTINUED:4242

      The chemicals splash over its claws and fingers, mixing 
      together in a dangerous interaction--

      FLAMES IGNITE across its hand.

      Taking his cue, Jackson steps forward and throws a second 
      beaker. This one explodes across the Alpha s torso, bursting 
      instantly into FLAMES.

      The creature lets loose a horrifying SHRIEK, writhing and 
      twisting as FIRE ENGULFS ITS BODY. 

      Scott pushes himself back on the ground, watching the figure 
      burn in front of the very house where he survived the first 
      fire. 

      Until finally, the shrieking subsides and Peter drops to the 
      wet leaves underneath him, rolling to a stop as the fire 
      dissipates to black smoke.      TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1138.

      CONTINUED:4242

      Both Stiles and Jackson step back as--

      Scott turns his eyes to Allison, surprised to see her slowly 
      coming toward him. Approaching without fear. Still hurt and 
      weak, Scott tries to back away.

      But Allison kneels down, a hand held out to him. Scott turns 
      his head away, trying to keep his altered face in shadow, not 
      wanting her to see him up close as a werewolf. As a monster.

      But Allison gently reaches up, her fingertips touching 
      Scott s cheeks. He silently blinks at her with his yellow 
      eyes. Then she slowly brings her lips to his and kisses him.

      Eyes closing on the world around him, Scott kisses her back, 
      softly and sweetly.

      As their lips finally part, the two teenagers pulling back to 
      look at each other, Scott blinks in realization that he s 
      transformed back to normal. As if her kiss alone was able to 
      make him human.

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    Why did you do that?

      She says the next words simply and honestly.

                                    ALLISON
                    Because I love you.

      Past them, a now conscious Argent watches the scene. Scott 
      notices him. But before he can say anything, he spots someone 
      else--

      Derek standing over Peter s still smoking body. He s put out 
      the rest of the flames with his jacket which he s laid over 
      Peter, still alive.

      Scott pulls away from Allison, suddenly realizing what s 
      about to happen.

                                  SCOTT
                    Wait. You said the cure comes from 
                    the one who bit you.

      Derek hesitates. Staring down at Peter, knowing what he s *
      about to do to Scott.*

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    You do this and I m dead. Her *
                    father, her family... What am I *
                    supposed to do? *    TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1138A.

      CONTINUED:4242

      Derek s CLAWED HAND rises up, framed perfectly by the moon in 
      the sky.*      TEEN WOLF "Episode 112" GREEN DRAFT2/23/1139.

      CONTINUED:4242

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    Don t!

      But Derek SLASHES DOWN, severing Peter s throat and sealing 
      his own fate. He slowly turns back to Scott to reveal his 
      eyes are glowing RED.

                                  DEREK
                    I m the Alpha now.

      And all Scott can do is watch as Derek disappears into the 
      shadows.


      Under an almost full moon hanging in a perfectly clear night 
      sky, Allison sits on the roof, gently resting her head back 
      against Scott s shoulder. 

      Their cheeks touch softly together as she glances up at him 
      with a smile. Just the two of them out there on the roof, 
      they hold each other for one perfect moment.

      But a moment in secret.

