
      Allison pulls into a 24 hour gas station. She gets out, 
      leaving her KEYS in the ignition. While filling the tank, she 
      glances around to notice the only other customer--

      A guy in his twenties, climbing onto a motorcycle. He flashes 
      a flirtatious smile, pulls on his helmet and tears into the 
      road.

      Allison turns back, waiting for the gas to finish pumping 
      when THE LIGHTS over the station CLICK OUT with an ELECTRIC 
      CRACKLE.

      Startled, she glances about, finding herself still alone. Not 
      a sound, other than her own nervous swallow. 

      Moving quickly, she puts the pump back and gets into her car. 
      When she reaches up, however--

      The keys are no longer in the ignition. 

      Allison checks her pockets, under her seat. Becoming more and 
      more anxious, she gets out to look around the car. 

      The JINGLE of KEYS spins her around. 

      Breath held, she searches the shadows. Then hears it again. 
      Keys CLICKING against each other. But from a different 
      direction. 

      Eyes darting from shadow to shadow, she searches for 
      movement. When she turns again--

      SOMEONE YANKS A HOOD OVER HER HEAD. Allison SCREAMS as her 
      world turns black.


      The front door swings open. An exhausted Allison steps out 
      while massaging her wrists.

      Leaning against her car parked nearby, Bennett clicks the 
      timer on his phone.

                                    BENNETT
                    Congrats.

                                    ALLISON
                    For what? It took me two and a half 
                    hours.

                                    BENNETT
                    Took me three when I did it.

      He flashes that flirtatious smile again. She can t help but 
      smile back.

      Watching her drive off, Bennett turns around to the house 
      where his motorcycle is parked to the side. But when he 
      starts forward, his leg catches on something.

                                    BENNETT (CONT D)
                    What the...

      He glances down to see something that looks like a vine 
      wrapped around his ankle. He kicks forward, pulling at it.                     TEEN WOLF "Episode 203" PINK  1/10/125.

        CONTINUED:33

      It pulls back.

      Bennett goes off his feet, SLAMMING down to the leaves and 
      dirt. He reaches out, trying to crawl forward when a--

      A CLAWED HAND whips out, slashing across the nape of his 
      neck.

      Bennett scrambles to his feet, hand at his neck. When he 
      pulls it away, it s not blood that he sees, however. 

      It s a strange, sticky CLEAR substance.

      Yanking a gun from his jacket, he turns about, looking into 
      the darkness to find his attacker. 

      He does not see the strange CLAWED HAND held out, silhouetted 
      in the darkness. The sharp tips appear oddly translucent. 
      Even stranger is the fluid that drips like venom from the 
      frighteningly sharp tips.

      Turning, the gun trembles in Bennett s hand. Then falls right 
      out of his grasp.

      Bennett looks at his hand as if he doesn t recognize it. 
      Fingers struggling to clench, he can no longer make a fist. 
      His knees buckle and he falls again.

      Lurching onto his stomach as his body rapidly paralyzes, he 
      looks out through blurred vision to see--

      A STRANGE SILHOUETTE. A creature on all fours with glowing 
      reptilian eyes, its tail whipping up and around. 

      It approaches with an odd grace to its movement. Claws 
      digging into the ground, it rushes forward, coming right at 
      Bennett.

      Coming in for the kill.

                                                                            CUT TO:
      MAIN TITLE: TEEN WOLF


      The doors clatter open to the parking lot. Scott and Stiles 
      rush out of the school just in time to see a very disturbing 
      sight--

      Erica sliding into the passenger seat of a black Camaro.

      Behind the wheel, Derek locks eyes with Scott. With a slight 
      smile turning the corners of his lips, he hits the gas, 
      FLOORING it out of the lot.

                                                                          FADE OUT:


                                  END OF ACT TWO                    TEEN WOLF "Episode 203" PINK  1/10/1219.


                                      ACT THREE

      FADE IN:


      Out of the gray mist hovering over the woods, Jackson slowly 
      approaches the Hale House. He glances up at the windows, 
      seeing only shards of broken glass.

      Taking the steps slowly, he reaches the porch, almost at the 
      door. But then, head held low, he speaks softly...

                                    JACKSON
                    Derek. I know you can hear me. You 
                    owe me an explanation. I want to 
                    know why it didn t work. I want to 
                    know what I m supposed to do. You 
                    owe me. 

      But no response comes. Jackson reaches a tremulous hand to 
      the door knob.

                                    JACKSON (CONT D)
                    Screw it.

      He kicks open the door.


      Stiles s Jeep skids to a halt at the curb. He jumps out and 
      rushes to the front porch of Boyd s home where he rings the 
      bell. Then knocks. Then rings the bell again.

      Stepping to the side, he peers in through the windows.

                                  STILES
                    Boyd? Boyd!

      Stiles hops down from the porch and heads through a side-gate 
      toward the rear of the house. Before he reaches the back 
      door, the gate SLAMS shut turning him around to face--

                                  STILES (CONT D)
                    Erica.                    TEEN WOLF "Episode 203" PINK  1/10/1235.

      CONTINUED:3434

      Hands clasped behind her back, she smiles mischievously.

                                  ERICA
                    What are you doing, Stiles?

                                  STILES
                    Looking for... um...

                                  ERICA
                    Boyd?

                                  STILES
                    Yeah. Yes.

                                  ERICA
                    I don t think he s here.

                                  STILES
                    Yeah. Probably not.

      Stiles keeps his eyes locked on hers.

                                  ERICA
                    You know what you re doing right 
                    now that s kind of funny? You re 
                    looking me right in the eyes.

                                  STILES
                    That s funny?

                                  ERICA
                    Yeah. Because it s that kind of 
                    look where you re trying not to 
                    look anywhere other than my eyes. 
                    But you want to, don t you?
                          (spelling it out)
                    You want a nice, long, hard look.

      Unblinking, Stiles nervously shakes his head.

                                  STILES
                    Not really, no.*

      She draws closer as Stiles backs away.

                                  ERICA
                    So it s just my eyes?

                                  STILES
                    You have beautiful eyes.

                                  ERICA
                    I have beautiful everything.                    TEEN WOLF "Episode 203" PINK  1/10/1236.

      CONTINUED:3434

                                  STILES
                    And a newfound self-confidence. 
                      Congratulations. I should get 
                    going.

                                  ERICA
                    You re not going anywhere.

                                  STILES
                    Why not?

                                  ERICA
                    Because you re having car trouble.

      Erica holds up the STARTER to Stiles s Jeep, wires dangling 
      off it. With a smile, she swings a fist up to his cheek, 
      knocking him out.


      A lone dumpster sits in the dimly lit alley. SUDDEN BANGING 
      and pounding comes from inside, accompanied by MUFFLED 
      GRIPES.

      The LID clatters open and arms fly over the edge as a gasping 
      Stiles, covered in garbage, pulls himself out.

                                  STILES
                    Bitch.


      Under the glow of his PORSCHE HEADLIGHTS, Jackson peers down 
      at a grouping of lacrosse balls on the grass.                     TEEN WOLF "Episode 203" PINK  1/10/1242.

      CONTINUED:4141

      A glazed over look in his eyes, he scoops up a ball with his 
      lacrosse stick.

      Turning with sudden speed, he fires the lacrosse ball at a 
      HOOP TARGET. It goes right through, a perfect shot. Jackson 
      picks up another ball. Then another and another, launching 
      them as hard as he can at the target. 

      Interestingly, every single ball makes it through. However, 
      gripped in a breathless fury, Jackson doesn t seem to even 
      notice his stunning success rate.

      Even when he finishes, tossing the lacrosse equipment into 
      the trunk of the Porsche, his focus seems elsewhere.


      Gripping the bumper, Jackson tries to push the car. Straining 
      angrily, his feet slip and he goes down, landing face-first 
      in the mud.

      Rising in absolute fury, Jackson grabs the rear of the car 
      and lifts it right off the ground.

      The car SLAMS back down, out of the mud. 

      Gasping, Jackson looks at his hands in astonishment. Then, 
      fingers slowly curling into fists, he gives a breathless 
      laugh, smiling at the display of strength. 

      Strength that can only be supernatural.

                                                                          FADE OUT:


                                  END OF EPISODE