
      Outside the Whittemore home, Matt hesitates over handing his 
      camera to Jackson.

                                  MATT
                    This doesn t have anything to do 
                    with Allison, does it?

                                    JACKSON
                    You got a little thing for Allison, 
                    Matt? A little crush?

                                  MATT
                    No.

                                    JACKSON
                    But you think I m going to waste my 
                    time by doing something as 
                      unbelievably ordinary as making a 
                    sex tape? Like some fame-whoring 
                    nitwit on a reality show?

                                  MATT
                    Well, then what are you doing?

                                    JACKSON
                      Documenting history.

      He snatches the camera bag from Matt s shoulder and turns for 
      the house.

                                    JACKSON (CONT D)
                    You ll get it back tomorrow.

      Matt drifts back down the walkway, pausing to give a last 
      look at the house as Jackson slams the door shut.


      Claws click across the pavement while inside the car, a 
      frantic Matt twists around to see out the windows. He pauses, 
      eyes widening as he gets a clear look.


      Staggering into a terrified retreat, Lahey spins around, 
      rushing for his car as SOMETHING bounds toward him.

      Jumping inside, Lahey yanks the door closed. But with a 
      METALLIC WRENCHING, the door rips right off its hinges. Lahey 
      SHRIEKS, a high-pitched scream as--


      Argent leads his family to the grave site while Matt aims his 
      camera at Allison.

                                  MATT (V.O.)
                    I was getting some photos. Working 
                    on my portfolio.

      All of the pictures are of Allison. One after another.

                                  MATT (V.O.)
                    Then, purely by accident, Lahey 
                    shows up in one of the pictures.

      Lahey turns and with the sound of a SHUTTER CLICK he becomes 
      a STILL FRAME, hateful eyes behind wire-rimmed glasses.

                                  MATT (V.O.)
                    I look down at the screen on my 
                    camera and I feel this unbelievable 
                    rage. All I can think about, all I 
                    can imagine, was seeing him dead. 
                    And the next day...


      Stilinski and his men approach the field to talk to Isaac.

                                  MATT (V.O.)
                    He actually was dead.


      Outside the station, a pleased Gerard looks past TWO HUNTERS 
      as they lower their weapons.

                                  GERARD
                      Shakespeare wrote that  love is a 
                    smoke made with the fume of sighs.  
                    Let s give them some love.


      With the sounds of fighting inside dying down, Gerard slips 
      out from between the SUV s for a closer look. A FIT OF 
      COUGHING seizes him momentarily and he reaches into his 
      pocket for his pills.

      Swallowing a handful, he pauses to notice a SHADOW in the 
      alley at the side of the station.        TEEN WOLF "Episode 210" GOLDENROD  3/20/1240.

      CONTINUED:6060

      SOMEONE stands in the darkness watching. Gerard squints his 
      eyes to focus, but the figure is gone.


      Slamming out of an exit into the alley, Matt glances back 
      only once and then goes right for the fence.

      Grabbing onto the chain links, he yanks himself up and over, 
      running for the woods. And for his life.


      Matt splashes through a creek, stumbling to his knees. Wet 
      and dirty, he scrambles up the hill and over the crest just 
      as--

      HEADLIGHTS TURN ON, flaring at him with a shocking 
      brilliance. Matt stumbles back under the glare.

                                  MATT
                    Hello?

      Squinting up, he barely has a chance to focus when Gerard 
      appears right in front of him. With a sudden and violent 
      SHOVE, he sends Matt HURTLING back. 

      Tumbling and tripping over his feet, Matt splashes into the 
      creek, head CRACKING against a rock.

      Dazed, he tries to push himself up. With blood running into 
      his eyes, he doesn t seem to notice Gerard as the man steps 
      over him. 

      Gloved hands taking hold of the boy, Gerard shoves Matt's 
      face into the water. 

      Flailing, Matt struggles, grasping at Gerard s coat sleeves, 
      trying to wrest free. But Gerard is too strong. He pushes 
      Matt s head further into the dark water, until finally--        TEEN WOLF "Episode 210" GOLDENROD  3/20/1243.

      CONTINUED:6666

      Matt lies still.

      While Gerard eases back up, shaking the water from his hands 
      and sleeves, SOMEONE WATCHES from the shadows. The same 
      person Gerard spotted in the alley next to the Sheriff s 
      Station...

      Peter Hale.

      He looks almost amused at the horrific murder. But what 
      happens next changes his expression entirely.

      Gerard turns around to see the Kanima down on all fours in 
      the creek with him.

                                  GERARD
                    No longer afraid of the water?

      The creature begins a slow, cautious approach.

                                  GERARD (CONT D)
                    You don t have to be afraid of 
                    anything, my friend.

      Pulling off his glove, Gerard holds his hand up, palm out.

                                  GERARD (CONT D)
                      Especially me.

      Drawing nearer, the Kanima raises a claw. While Peter watches 
      from the shadows, man and monster approach each other as if 
      to shake hands.

      And just as Gerard and the Kanima s open palms are about to 
      touch, a connection about to be made--

                                                                    CUT TO BLACK:


                                  END OF EPISODE