
      Hidden underneath a canopy of trees sits a lone TRAILER. A 
      yellow light outside the door FLICKERS gently while the young 
      couple inside argues not-so-gently.


      Stepping out her back door, Lydia peers up to the trellis 
      where the Junior first plucked the flower. She pushes the 
      other bright petals aside, but there are no more purple ones 
      to be found.

                                  LYDIA
                    Perfect.

      With a disappointed sigh, she turns to the thick of trees 
      just beyond her home s wrought iron fence. Almost unaware of 
      what she s doing, she starts walking.


      Pushing through branches, Lydia emerges from the thin crop of 
      woods to find herself in the backyard of the Junior s house. 
      Cautiously approaching the door, she gives it a soft knock.

                                  LYDIA
                    Hello?

      She puts a hand on the knob and gives it a gentle turn. The 
      door is unlocked. Allowing it to creak open she peers in to 
      find an empty foyer.

      Strangely, the entire house appears abandoned. Just carpet 
      and walls. As the door behind her eases closed--


      Harris gets into his car in the school parking lot. But when 
      he turns the ignition on, he pauses. He glances out the 
      windows as if momentarily feeling eyes on him.

      Finally, he hits the gas. As the car pulls out, the bumper 
      sticker becomes visible. It reads--

         Imagination is more important than Knowledge  - Einstein.


      Lydia s dog, Prada, comes hurrying out of the woods while she 
      stares blankly, almost like she s sleepwalking.

      With a brief, shimmering flash, the Junior is there handing 
      her a flower and then instantly gone.


      The trailer in the woods. But this is no flashback. It s the 
      present. Sean and Jessica can be seen arguing through the 
      window. Seen specifically by a Stranger in a Hoodie.          TEEN WOLF "Episode 207"   GREEN2/22/1243.


