
      On the rural outskirts of a small California town called 
      Beacon Hills, POLICE CARS and STATE TROOPER SUV s gather on a 
      dirt road. The Officers jump out, SEARCH DOGS barking at 
      their sides.

      One by one, the Officers click on flashlights, streaks of 
      light tearing through the shadowy woods. A desperate search 
      begins...


      Not far from those dense woods, a two-story home lies hidden 
      under a canopy of trees. A gentle wind drifts into the open 
      window of an upstairs bedroom where--


      The front door to the porch opens. Now armed with a BASEBALL 
      BAT, Scott starts for the yard. Breath held tight, he moves 
      cautiously off the porch steps.

      THE SOUND OF MOVEMENT stops him cold. 

      Holding still, he white-knuckles the bat as his eyes wander 
      up to the side of house when--

      A DARK FIGURE SWOOPS DOWN causing Scott to HOLLER in terror, 
      almost swinging the bat as an upside down face appears in 
      front of him.

                                  SCOTT
                    Stiles, what the hell are you 
                    doing?

                                  STILES
                    You weren t answering your phone.

      Caught in the trellis, STILES hangs in front of Scott. He 
      continues talking upside down as if this were a perfectly 
      normal way to have a conversation.

                                  STILES (CONT'D)
                    I know it s late, but you gotta  
                    hear this. I saw my dad leave 
                    twenty minutes ago. Dispatch 
                    called. They re bringing in every 
                    officer from the Beacon department 
                    and even State Police.

                                  SCOTT
                    For what?

                                  STILES
                    Two joggers found a body in the 
                    woods.

                                  SCOTT
                    A dead body?

                                  STILES
                    No, a body of water. Yes, dumbass, 
                    a dead body.

      Reaching up to pull himself free of the trellis, he lands on 
      his feet in front of Scott.                  TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/104.

        CONTINUED:55

                                  SCOTT
                    You mean like murdered?

                                  STILES
                    Nobody knows yet. Just that it was 
                    a girl, probably in her twenties.

                                  SCOTT 
                    Hold on. If they found a body, what 
                    are they looking for now?

                                  STILES
                    That s the best part. They only 
                    found half.


      A beat-up jeep skids to a halt in front of the gated entrance 
      to the Beacon Hills Preserve. Stiles gets out with a 
      flashlight in hand. Scott follows, hurrying to keep up with 
      him as he charges into the hiking paths.

                                  SCOTT
                    Are we seriously doing this?

                                  STILES
                    You re the one always bitching that 
                    nothing ever happens in this town.

                                  SCOTT
                    I was trying to get a good night s 
                    sleep for practice tomorrow.

                                  STILES
                    Right, because sitting on the bench 
                    is such a grueling effort.

                                  SCOTT
                    No, because I m playing this year. 
                    In fact, I m going to make first 
                    line.

                                  STILES
                    That s the spirit. Everyone should 
                    have a dream. Even a pathetically 
                      unrealistic one.

                                  SCOTT
                    Just out of curiosity, which half 
                    of the body are we looking for?                  TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/105.

        CONTINUED:66

                                  STILES 
                    Huh. I didn t even think about 
                    that.

                                  SCOTT
                    And what if whoever killed the girl 
                    is still out here?

                                  STILES
                    Also something I didn t think 
                    about.

                                  SCOTT
                      Comforting to know you ve planned 
                    this out with your usual attention 
                    to detail.

      Racing up the paths, Scott s breath begins to shorten.

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    Maybe the severe asthmatic should 
                    be the one holding the flashlight.

      As they crest a hill, Stiles pauses. Below, FLASHLIGHT BEAMS 
      scour the shadows, the police search just ahead. Unable to 
      stand still, Stiles races forward.

                                  STILES
                    Come on!

                                  SCOTT
                    Stiles, wait up--

      But gasping for air, Scott has to stop to take a hit from his 
      inhaler. Stiles disappears up ahead. Then, realizing he s 
      left Scott behind, he slows to look back when--

      BARKING spins him around.

      FANGED TEETH SNAP FEROCIOUSLY at him, sending him staggering 
      away and falling right onto his ass. A SEARCH DOG yanks back 
      against his leash just before tearing him apart.

                                  STATE TROOPER
                    Stay right there!

      Scott freezes. It s not him the State Trooper was yelling at, 
      however.

      Peering out from behind a tree, he sees Stiles has run right 
      into a search party. Flashlight beams in his eyes, the boy 
      puts his hands in the air.                  TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/106.

        CONTINUED:66

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI (O.S.)
                    Hold on, hold on, this little 
                      delinquent belongs to me.

      DEPUTY STILINSKI steps into the light past the GROWLING 
      search dogs. Stiles shrinks under his glare.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI (CONT'D)
                    Do you listen in on all of my phone 
                    calls?

                                  STILES
                    No... Not the boring ones.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI
                    And where s your usual partner in 
                    crime?

                                  STILES
                    Who? Scott? Scott s home. Said he 
                    wanted to get a good night s sleep 
                    for the first day back at school.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI 
                          (calling out)
                    Scott? You out there?

      Hidden in the shadows, Scott doesn t move.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI (CONT'D)
                          (still clearly suspicious)
                    All right, young man, I m taking 
                    you back to your car and we re 
                    going to discuss a little something 
                    called Invasion of Privacy.

      Watching Stiles get escorted away, Scott steps out from the 
      cover of the trees with an irritated sigh. Starting back, he 
      tries to find his way out of the woods, but with each step it 
      becomes increasingly difficult to see in the pitch black.

      At a fork in the path, he pauses in confusion. He s about to 
      start off down one direction when he hears--

      A RUSTLING among the trees. 

      Scott holds still. Breath tightening more from fear than 
      asthma, he reaches into his pocket for his INHALER when--

      He hears an odd RUMBLING. The sound of sudden and furious 
      movement RISING in volume and velocity until--                  TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/107.

        CONTINUED:66

      HALF A DOZEN DEER CHARGE OUT OF THE DARKNESS, soaring past 
      him with the thunderous BEAT of hooves trampling the ground.

      Startled, Scott DROPS THE INHALER. 

      Then, once again alone in the dark, he kneels down and pulls 
      out his cell phone to look for the inhaler. 

      Guiding the phone s LIGHTED DISPLAY over the ground, Scott 
      doesn t find his inhaler but does manage to briefly 
        illuminate-- 

      A FACE. Dead eyes peer up from the pale, yet beautiful face 
      of a young woman torn in half.

      CRYING OUT IN SHOCK, Scott lurches up, tripping on his own 
      feet and tumbling over the unearthed roots of a tree. 
      Suddenly, he s propelled down a leaf-covered slope, slamming 
      into trees, rolling head over heels and tumbling to a stop at 
      the base.

      Pushing himself up, a breathless Scott looks back up at the 
      embankment down which he just fell.

      A LOW GROWL stops him moving. Stops him breathing. Something 
      crouches in the shadows right near him. Something very large. 
      Scott slowly begins to turn around when--

      A SHAPE HURTLES TOWARD HIM.

      For the briefest instant there s a flash of razor-sharp 
      teeth. Scott twists forward, CRYING OUT. Then, seeming to 
      disentangle himself from the attacking animal, he scrambles 
      back to his feet and into a panicked run. 

      Whipping through branches tearing at his skin and clothes, he 
      races blindly through the forest until he crashes--


      Out into the road. Scott whirls around to face AN ONCOMING 
      CAR. The driver swerves, almost clipping him. HORN BLARING, 
      the car hurtles past.

      World spinning around him, dark blood sticks his tattered 
      shirt to his back over--A DEEP AND VICIOUS LOOKING BITE.

      He whips around when he hears the strangest sound... 

      THE HOWLING OF A WOLF.                  TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/108.

        CONTINUED:77

      It echoes through the hills, over the trees, across the 
      rooftops and into the night...

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                  END OF ACT ONE                  TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/109.


                                        ACT TWO

      FADE IN:


      Lacrosse stick strapped to his backpack, Scott pedals into 
      the parking lot of Beacon Hills High School among the swarm 
      of students. Skateboarders jump steps, potheads take barely 
      concealed tokes, girls and guys hold hands, guys and guys 
      hold hands, yes it s California.

      As Scott pulls his bike to one of the racks to lock it up-- 

      A pristine BMW with a license plate that reads: JCKSN37, *
      blazes into the lot and stops in the space next to the racks. 
      Scott, still kneeling, gets bumped in the back when the 
      driver s side door opens.

      JACKSON WHITTEMORE, exceptionally good-looking and usually *
      oblivious to anyone not within his social or financial 
      circle, steps out to notice that Scott hit his car by being 
      near it.

                                    JACKSON
                    Dude. Watch the paint job.

      He s completely unaware of hitting Scott as he grabs his own 
      LACROSSE EQUIPMENT.

                                    STUDENT (O.S.)
                          (calling out)
                    Jackson!

      Hearing his favorite word, Jackson looks up and heads over to 
      meet his friends. All good looking jocks with big smiles and 
      expensive cars, pretty girls coming up to say hello.

      Watching with that longing look of an outsider trying to 
      figure out a way in, Scott steps away from the bike racks, 
      slinging his backpack over his shoulder.

                                  STILES (O.S.)
                    All right, let s see this thing...


      A SCHOOL BELL RINGS outside a brick building swarming with 
      students. While others head for the entrance, Scott takes off 
      his backpack and pulls his shirt up a few inches to show 
      Stiles the BANDAGE on his lower back.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/109A.

        CONTINUED:88

                                  SCOTT
                    It was too dark to see much but I m 
                    pretty sure it was a wolf.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1010.

        CONTINUED:88

                                  STILES
                    A wolf bit you? No, not a chance.

      Scott slings his backpack over his shoulder again and heads 
      toward the double door entrance of the school with Stiles.

                                  SCOTT
                    I heard a wolf howling.

                                  STILES
                    No, you didn t.

                                  SCOTT
                    What do you mean  No, I didn t?  
                    How do you know what I heard?

                                  STILES
                      California doesn t have wolves. Not  
                    for the last sixty years.

                                  SCOTT
                    Really?

                                  STILES
                    Yes, really. There are no wolves in 
                      California.

                                  SCOTT
                    Well, if you don t believe me about 
                    the wolf, then you re definitely 
                    not going to believe me when I tell 
                    you I saw the body.

                                  STILES
                    You what? Are you kidding me?

                                  SCOTT
                    I wish. I m going to have 
                      nightmares about it for a month.

                                  STILES
                    That s freaking awesome. This is 
                    seriously the best thing that s 
                    happened to this town since...
                          (looking past Scott)
                    ...since the birth of Lydia Martin 
                    who s walking toward us right now.

      A drop-dead gorgeous junior named LYDIA MARTIN strolls the 
      walkway like it was a fashion show runway in Milan.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1011.

        CONTINUED:88

                                  STILES (CONT'D)
                    Hey Lydia, how are you? You look--
                          (as she walks right past)
                    ...like you re going to ignore me.
                          (at Scott s laugh)
                    You re the cause of this, you know. 
                    Dragging me down to your nerd 
                    depths. I m a nerd by association. 
                    I ve been Scarlet-nerded by you.

      Blending into the crowd, they head into--


      A WHISTLE BLOWS. The Lacrosse Team s Assistant Coach gathers 
      the team on the field, Stiles and Scott lagging behind.

                                  STILES
                    But if you play I ll have no one to 
                    talk to on the bench. You really 
                    gonna  do that to your best friend?                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1016.

      CONTINUED:1111

                                  SCOTT
                    I can t sit out again. My whole 
                    life is sitting on the sidelines. 
                    This season, I make first line.

      Heading for the field, he pauses to notice Lydia climbing the 
      bleachers. And stepping right behind her... Allison.

                                  COACH
                    McCall! You re in the goal.

      Scott turns to COACH BOBBY FINSTOCK, a man with little 
      comprehension of the difficulties of teenage life. He tosses 
      Scott a bundle of goalie equipment.

                                  SCOTT
                    But I ve never played goal.

                                  COACH
                    I know. Scoring some shots will 
                    give the boys a confidence boost. 
                    It s a first day back thing. Get 
                    them energized, jazzed up.

                                  SCOTT
                    What about me?

                                  COACH
                    Try not to take any in the face.

      Stepping into the net, Scott glances to the bleachers where 
      Allison watches with Lydia, eyes focusing on them.

                                  LYDIA
                    Him? I m not sure who he is. Why?

                                    ALLISON
                    He s in my English class.

      Scott looks up, shocked to hear Allison asking about him. But 
      with his hearing momentarily turned up, he flinches at the 
      WHISTLE BLOW, sound RINGING through his skull.

      One of the bigger players charges forward as the Assistant 
      Coach passes the ball to him. Catching it, he whips his stick 
      forward, HURLING the ball toward the goal.

      Still reeling from the WHISTLE, Scott looks up too late to 
      see the ball soaring toward him. IT BOUNCES RIGHT OFF HIS 
      HELMET and into the net. 

      The team LAUGHS wickedly. Even the Coach snickers.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1017.

      CONTINUED:1111

      Cheeks burning under his mask, Scott steals himself for the 
      next player. When the WHISTLE BLOWS again, he s ready. The 
      Assistant Coach passes the ball to the player who catches it 
      and FIRES it right at the goal.

      Scott moves startlingly fast, almost an instantaneous 
      reaction. Then he notices the player staring at him with a 
      mixture of disappointment and surprise. Scott has the ball. 

      He caught it. When the next player takes the shot, Scott 
      catches the ball again. And then again. And again. Nothing 
      can get past him.

      In the bleachers, Allison and Lydia sit forward.

                                    ALLISON (CONT'D)
                    He seems like he s pretty good.

                                  LYDIA
                    Very good.

      Intrigued, Lydia keeps her gaze locked on Scott who now 
      stands with a far more confident posture. Until he sees that 
      Jackson is next in line. Glaring at Scott, he practically 
      strangles the lacrosse stick with his gloves.

                                  SCOTT
                    Oh God...

      The Assistant Coach tosses the ball up. Jackson launches 
      forward, catching the ball and spinning around to fire it at 
      the goal. But Scott moves with supernatural precision.

      The ball lands right in the pocket of the goalie stick.

      Stiles lets out a HOLLER, jumping up on the bench. In the 
      bleachers, Lydia stands and gives a WHOOP as well causing 
      Jackson to throw a look at her. She returns his glare with a 
      sly smile, a warning to step up his game.

      Grinning, Scott gives the goalie stick a whirl, spinning it 
      with a flick of his wrist and sending the ball soaring right 
      into the pocket of the stunned Assistant Coach s stick.


      In the woods, Scott retraces his steps from last night with 
      Stiles following behind him.

                                  SCOTT
                    I don t know what it was. I mean I 
                    felt like I had all the time in the 
                    world to catch the ball. 
                                  (MORE)                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1018.

      CONTINUED:1212
                                  SCOTT (CONT'D)
                    And that s not the only weird 
                    thing. I mean I can hear stuff I 
                    shouldn t be able to hear. And I 
                    can smell things.

                                  STILES
                    Smell things? Like what?

                                  SCOTT
                    Like the mint mojito gum in your 
                    pocket.

                                  STILES
                    I don t have any...

      Stiles pulls out a lint-covered piece of wrapped gum.

                                  STILES (CONT'D)
                    All this started with the bite?

                                  SCOTT
                    What if it s an infection? What if 
                    my body is flooding with adrenaline 
                    before I fall into shock? I knew I 
                    should have gone to the ER.

                                  STILES 
                    I ve actually heard of this. It s a 
                    specific kind of infection.

                                  SCOTT
                    Are you serious?

                                  STILES
                    All the symptoms add up. I think 
                    it s called... Lycanthropy.

                                  SCOTT
                    What s that? Is it bad? It sounds 
                    bad.

                                  STILES
                    It is. But only once a month.

                                  SCOTT
                    Once a month?

                                  STILES
                    On the night of a full moon.

      Scott looks at him. And then gets it.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1019.

      CONTINUED:1212

                                  SCOTT
                    You re an ass.

                                  STILES
                    Hey, you re the one who heard a 
                    wolf howling.

                                  SCOTT
                    There could be something seriously 
                    wrong with me.

                                  STILES
                    I know! You re a werewolf!
                          (off his look)
                    Okay, obviously, I m kidding. But 
                    if you see me in shop class melting 
                    down all the silver I can find it s 
                    because Friday s a full moon.

                                  SCOTT
                          (glancing around)
                    I swear this was it. The body was 
                    here. The deer came running, I 
                    dropped my inhaler...

                                  STILES
                    Maybe the killer moved the body.

                                  SCOTT
                    If he did, I hope he left my 
                    inhaler. Those things are like 
                    eighty bucks.

      Stiles taps him on the arm, bringing his attention to a 
      FIGURE standing just a few yards away.

      DEREK HALE. Nineteen and unquestionably handsome, he has a 
      rougher look than the cleanly shaven Beacon Hills boys.

                                  DEREK
                    What are you doing here?

      Both Scott and Stiles are too stunned to speak at first.

                                  DEREK (CONT'D)
                    This is private property.

                                  STILES
                    Sorry, we didn t know.

      Derek stares at Scott, barely noticing Stiles.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1020.

      CONTINUED:1212

                                  SCOTT
                    We were just looking for something. 
                    Forget it. Sorry to bother you.

      As they re turning to go, Derek tosses an OBJECT to Scott. 
      HIS INHALER. When he looks up, Derek is already walking away.

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    Come on. I have to get to work.

                                  STILES
                    Dude, that was Derek Hale. You 
                    remember, right? He s only a few 
                    years older than us.

                                  SCOTT
                    Remember what?

                                  STILES
                    His family. They all burned to 
                    death in a fire like ten years ago. 
                      I remember the cops pulling him out 
                    of class to tell him.

                                  SCOTT
                    I wonder what he s doing back.

      Scott eyes the inhaler in his hand, closing his fist over it.


      As thunder cracks in the sky above, Scott flips a CLOSED sign 
      on the door.


      Following Allison to her car while holding an umbrella, Scott 
      opens the hatchback to reveal an injured stray. Hackles 
      raised, the frightened lab mix is clearly in pain. Allison 
      reaches in to pick him up but the dog snaps at her. She 
      flinches back, stepping right into Scott s arms.

                                  SCOTT
                    You okay?

      She nods, looking up at Scott behind her, his hands on her 
      forearms, fingers lightly touching her soft skin.

                                  SCOTT (CONT'D)
                    He s just frightened.

                                    ALLISON
                    That makes two of us.

                                  SCOTT
                    Let me see if I have better luck.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1023.

      CONTINUED:1616

      Handing her the umbrella, Scott steps toward the open door, 
      oddly calm.

                                    ALLISON
                    Careful.

      As he connects eyes with the dog, something happens... SOUND 
      drops out around him, all except for the dog s nervous 
      PANTING. Then its harsh gasps begin to ease as some sort of 
      primal communication occurs between them. 

      CLOSE ON SCOTT - for the briefest moment, his EYES take on a 
      strangely YELLOW tint, like that of a wolf.

      In response, the dog lowers its body submissively, yielding 
      to the obviously dominant animal. 

      With Allison watching in amazement, Scott gathers the dog 
      into his arms and carries him into the vet s office.


      Scott follows Allison to her car. As she opens the door, he 
      finally gathers his courage--

                                  SCOTT
                    Um... I was wondering--I mean--is 
                    it really Family Night on Friday or 
                    do you think maybe you d like to go 
                    to that party with me?

      She throws him a curious look. How did he know she said that?

                                    ALLISON
                    Family Night was a total lie.

                                  SCOTT 
                    So is that a yes? You ll go?

                                    ALLISON
                      Definitely yes.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1026.



      Jerking up, Scott knocks his head against something. Reaching 
      up, he touches rock.

      Now fully awake and very alarmed, Scott, clothed only his 
      boxers, scrambles out from beneath a cave-like overhang. 
      Glancing about in breathless shock, he discovers he s 
      sleepwalked all the way out into the middle of the woods...

      Scott staggers out of the cave-like overhang and stands in 
      the fog-laden woods, shivering. He turns, trying to see just 
      where he is and then...

      He holds very still, breath caught. 

      Head cocked, he listens to the sounds around him. As his 
      heartbeat rises, he takes a barefooted step back. Then he 
      notices that there s not a sound of life in the woods. Until--

      Something moves. In the fog. Only a few yards away.

      He turns around, peering into the woods. But leaves and 
      twisting tree branches are all that move in the breeze.

      Half naked and very cold now, Scott backs away. He keeps 
      glancing to each side as he starts to walk. Moving faster and 
      faster, until he s jogging and then running.

      Hurtling into the fog and the woods, he begins to notice--

      A SHADOW. Moving through the woods. Keeping pace with him. 
      When he starts running faster, that strange loping SILHOUETTE 
      moves just as fast.

      And then he can see its eyes--like GLOWING WHITE LIGHTS in 
      the fog. 

      The thing suddenly crosses behind him, a dark shape leaping 
      from one side of him to the next, diving out of and then back 
      into the fog.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1027.

      CONTINUED:1919

      Running faster and faster in terror while glancing to his 
      side to see the strange silhouette racing with him, Scott 
      seems to not merely be running but moving with almost 
        supernatural speed until finally--

      The SHADOW slows, letting him get ahead. But Scott keeps 
      running faster and faster, the world around him blurring 
      until--

      His feet land on a low wooded fence and suddenly he s soaring 
      into the air and--

      UNDER WATER.

      Scott thrashes in freezing cold water, bursting to the 
      surface to find himself--


      Amid the players rushing the field, a very late Stiles finds 
      Scott in the crowd and hurries toward him.

                                  STILES
                    Scott, wait up! You gotta  hear 
                    this.

                                  SCOTT
                    I m playing the first elimination, 
                    Stiles. Can t it wait?

                                  STILES
                    Just hold on. I overheard my Dad on 
                    the phone. The fiber analysis came 
                    back from LA. They found animal 
                    hairs on the body from the woods.

                                  SCOTT
                    Stiles, I have to go.

                                  STILES 
                    You re not going to believe what 
                    the animal was--

      But with his helmet on, Scott rushes onto the field, leaving 
      Stiles to say the next words to himself.

                                  STILES (CONT'D)
                    It was a wolf.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1030.

      CONTINUED:2121

      OUT ON THE FIELD the Coach shouts for the players.

                                  COACH
                    All right, gather round...

      Scott notices Allison at the bleachers with Lydia. She gives 
      him a wave and a smile. He holds up a hand to wave back.

                                  COACH (CONT D)
                    You got a question, McCall?

                                  SCOTT
                    What?

                                  COACH
                    You raised your hand.

                                  SCOTT
                    Oh, no I was just--nothing. Sorry.

                                  COACH
                          (to the rest of the team)
                    All right, you know how this goes. 
                    If you don t make the cut, you re 
                    most likely warming the bench the 
                    rest of the season. But make the 
                    cut and you play, your parents are 
                    proud, your girlfriend loves you, 
                      everything else is cream cheese. 
                    Now show me what you got!

      The WHISTLE blows and the game begins.

      The pace is fast and brutal. When the ball gets passed to 
      Scott, Jackson comes right after him. Lacrosse sticks 
      smacking down on his gloves, Scott tumbles forward and slams 
      to the ground, kicking up dirt around him.

      As the WHISTLE stops the play, Jackson looms over Scott. 
      Glowering down at him, he grabs the ball while Scott--teeth 
      clenched behind his mask--pushes himself up off the ground.

      Coach gives the WHISTLE a SHARP BLOW. The team gathers for  
      the next play. 

      Scott and Jackson find themselves staring across from each 
      other at the draw, crouched down with their sticks and the 
      ball between them.

                                  COACH (CONT D)
                    Set!                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1031.

      CONTINUED:2121

      They tense, holding absolutely still. Then, at the WHISTLE, 
      Scott moves with shocking speed, grabbing the ball right out 
      from under Jackson.

      AT THE BENCHES - Stiles moves to the sidelines to watch.

      Scott charges the length of the field. DEFENSE lashes out 
      with their sticks, but he parries expertly.

      Jackson catches up and makes a furious stab at stealing the 
      ball. Then with Defense converging on him--

      Scott twists his lacrosse stick around, keeping the ball 
      safely in the pocket while he literally FLIPS FORWARD, 
      leaping right over the heads of the Defensive Players. Feet 
      landing on the turf, he whirls around, tossing the ball in an 
      over the shoulder shot past the goalie--

      Right into the net.

      The crowd in the bleachers ROARS with CHEERING, Allison on 
      her feet along with everyone else. Everyone except Stiles.

                                  COACH (CONT'D)
                    McCall, get over here!

      He trots over to the Coach. All eyes are on him, including 
      someone watching from behind a chain link fence... Derek.

                                  COACH (CONT D)
                    What in the name of God was that? 
                    This is a lacrosse field. Are you 
                    trying out for the gymnastics team?

                                  SCOTT
                    No, Coach.

                                  COACH
                    Then what the hell was that?

                                  SCOTT
                    I don t know. I was just trying to 
                    make the shot.

                                  COACH
                    Well, you made the shot. And guess 
                    what? You re starting, McCall. You 
                    just made first line.

      CHEERS ERUPT around him. As team members slap him on the back 
      and knock his helmet with their gloves, a deliriously happy 
      Scott doesn t even notice Jackson s furious stare. Or Stiles. 
      Watching with a very worried look.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1032.



      Outside the house, Scott and his Mom can be HEARD talking.

                                  SCOTT
                    Come on, Mom, nothing s going to 
                    happen.


      Then further down the street, their voices take on the same 
      EFFECT as those that Scott could hear when he was listening 
      in on conversations at school.

                                    MELISSA MCCALL
                    You bet your ass nothing s going to 
                    happen. I am not going to be on 
                    some reality show with a sixteen 
                    year-old pregnant girl.

                                  SCOTT
                    I got it, Mom.

      No less than a hundred yards away but still within sight of 
      the house, a dark figure stands next to the open door of a 
      black Dodge Challenger, listening...

      Derek Hale.


      Scott pulls up to the curb outside Allison s house. He keeps 
      taking deep breaths. He pulls his inhaler out, shakes it up, 
      looks at it and then tosses it in the back.

      Finally, the front door of the house opens and Allison steps 
      out. Looking absolutely stunning under the glow of the 
      streetlights, she approaches the car while pushing a strand 
      of hair from her eyes.

      Suddenly realizing he s still in the car with his mouth 
      hanging open, Scott scrambles to get out and open the door 
      for her.


      Car doors open on all sides. Teenagers pour out from Range 
      Rovers and BMW s outside the MUSIC rattled windows of Lydia 
      Martin s house.

      When Scott and Allison climb the steps to the house, the door 
      swings open to reveal Lydia.

                                  LYDIA
                    Well, if it isn t the new star 
                    player with my new best friend. I 
                    was hoping you d come.

      Scott stares at her, dumbfounded. Then, trying to be as 
      subtle as possible, he glances behind him. No one there. 
      Lydia is, in fact, talking to him.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1039.

        CONTINUED:22F22F

                                  LYDIA (CONT'D)
                    Bar s by the pool.

      She opens the door wide for both of them. Pleasantly stunned, 
      Scott follows Allison inside the house.


      Teenagers jam the outside of the house by the pool. Some 
      already drunk, some high. Scott and Allison walk through the 
      crowd. But Scott pauses when he hears--

      A DOG BARKING. A huge ROTTWEILER in the yard next door just 
      beyond a chain link fence. And it s barking at Derek.

      He stands behind the fire pit, staring straight at Scott. But 
      then he shoots a look at the Rottweiler. The dog stops 
      barking instantly. 

      Eyes locked on the animal, Derek gives an almost 
      imperceptible nod. Tail between its legs, the Rottweiler 
        submissively lowers to a sitting position.

      Satisfied, Derek turns back to a surprised Scott.

                                    ALLISON
                    You okay?

                                  SCOTT
                    What? Oh... Yeah. Fine.

      When he looks back, Derek is gone. Movement catches his eye 
      and he glances up to--

      THE ROOF OF THE POOL HOUSE - where a shadowy figure seems to 
      disappear just past the chimney.

      Scott steps back, trying to see if he actually did just 
      witness Derek leaping twenty feet off the ground. But there s 
      nothing there.

      And Allison is holding her hand out to him. Letting his fear 
      go, Scott takes her hand with a smile.

      In the crowd, they start dancing. As they come closer and 
      closer, as Allison starts to smile back at him, the usually 
      timid Scott begins to let go.

      His hands reach around her waist with the other teens pushing 
      them closer. Bodies pressed against each other, her cheek 
      brushes lightly against his.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1040.

      CONTINUED:2323

      Then through the crowd, Scott notices Lydia dancing with 
      Jackson, grinding close to him, her fingers wrapped around 
      the back of his neck.

      She presses her lips to Jackson s locking him in a passionate 
      kiss. As he eagerly kisses her back, sliding his hands down 
      past her waist, Lydia opens her eyes.

      And looks right at Scott.

      Staring at him as Jackson goes at her neck. Unused to the 
      attention of one beautiful girl, much less two, Scott finds 
      himself dumbstruck until the bodies of the dancing teens push 
      together to leave him alone with Allison again.

      As Scott peers into her eyes, for a second it almost looks as 
      though they re about to kiss.

      Then the music begins driving faster, starting to sound 
      almost like the quickening of a heartbeat. Scott s HEARTBEAT.

      The sounds around him INTENSIFY. His fingers clench back, 
      veins at the surface of his hands as he presses against the 
      fabric of Allison s shirt. His upper lip pulls up momentarily 
      to reveal a sharpened incisor. 

      Lights GLARING in his eyes, Scott s breathing tightens, sweat 
      at his temples. He steps back, pulling away from her.

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    Sorry... I... I ll be right back.

                                    ALLISON
                    Are you okay?

      But he hurries past her and into the house.


      When Scott turns the corner, he glances up to the sky where 
      the FULL MOON shines brilliantly in the night.

      Gasps now starting to sound like animalistic growls, he 
      reaches his mother s car. Just getting the keys from his 
      pocket seems an almost colossal effort.

      A second later, the car tears away from the curb as--

      Allison comes out of Lydia s house, looking around. No idea 
      where Scott is. 

                                  DEREK
                    Allison.

      She turns to see Derek coming toward her.

                                  DEREK (CONT D)
                    I m a friend of Scott s. My name s 
                    Derek.

      He steps under the street light his deep black eyes, 
      strangely hypnotic.

      OMITTED2525


      Through the open bedroom window, Scott launches himself out 
      from the second story. 

      THE FULL MOON looming in the sky behind him, his hands slam 
      down on the wet pavement revealing that what we d just seen 
      was the reflection of his leaping figure in a puddle.                 TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1043.

      CONTINUED:2828

      Now, Scott s crouched figure slowly draws up to reveal he s 
      no longer struggling against the transformation.

      He s given into it.

      Not a hulking beast but a leaner, more human monster. Both 
      powerfully muscular and strangely seductive with gleaming 
      yellow eyes, incisors reformed into fangs, ears tapered to 
      points over thickened, wilder hair and fingernails grown to 
      razor sharp claws.

      The sixteen year-old boy is gone. Scott is now a WEREWOLF, 
      charging down the driveway and then suddenly up, leaping to 
      the branch of one tree, hurtling to the next and then finally 
      into the dark of the woods. In search of Allison and the 
      danger she faces.

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                  END OF ACT FIVE                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1044.


                                        ACT SIX

      FADE IN:

      OMITTED28A28A

      OMITTED2929

      OMITTED3030


      Down winding roads and through twisting paths, flashes of 
      moonlight briefly illuminate the outline of a figure moving 
      impossibly fast.


      The tree-shrouded entrance to the Beacon Hills Preserve. 
      Derek s black Dodge Challenger sits in the parking lot.

      Scott leaps down, LANDING right on the roof of the car. He 
      peers through the windshield to see the vehicle is empty and 
      then leaps off--


      Stiles s jeep skids to a halt just outside Allison s darkened 
      house. A second later, he s on the steps ringing the bell.


      Charging out from the shadows, Scott lands on a moonlit 
      fallen tree. Clawed hands resting on the dead trunk, his 
      breath comes out in steamy gasps. His crouched and 
      silhouetted body twists around, trying to catch a scent in 
      the air.


      Stiles now pounding on the door, finally stops when lights 
      come on inside. The door clicks open. MRS. ARGENT looks out, 
      confused.

                                  STILES
                    Hi. I m a friend of Allison s and 
                    this is going to sound kind of 
                    crazy. Actually really crazy. 
                    Actually crazy doesn t even begin 
                    to--                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1045.

        CONTINUED:30E30E

                                  MRS. ARGENT
                          (calling back inside)
                    Allison? It s for you!

      Stiles opens his mouth to speak again but then stops, utterly 
      shocked to see Allison coming down the stairs.

                                    ALLISON
                    What s up?

      As a distant HOWL can be heard, Stiles turns to the sound, a 
      look of understanding coming over him... It s not Allison 
      Derek was after. 

      It s Scott.


      Racing into a clearing, Scott slows, looking up to find an 
      unexpected and very strange sight--

      A JACKET.

      It s Allison s. The jacket she was wearing at the party, now 
      used to lure him here.

      Something moves in the shadows. Scott whirls around, 
      launching himself up as--

      DEREK COMES OUT OF THE SHADOWS and drags him back to the 
      ground. They almost look like dogs grappling as they go up 
      and then slam back down to the leaves and brush below them.

      Derek holds him down, one hand wrapped around Scott s throat. 
      He s unchanged in the full moon, except for a strange BLUE 
      TINT to his eyes.

                                  SCOTT
                    Where is she?

      Scott s voice is deeper, strangely demonic.

                                  DEREK
                    She s safe. From you.

                                  SCOTT
                    What did you do--

                                  DEREK
                    Quiet.

      His VOICE comes like a knife into Scott s head, making him 
      wince. Derek glances up to the woods around them, listening.              TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1045A.

        CONTINUED:30F30F

                                  DEREK (CONT D)
                    It s too late.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1046.

        CONTINUED:30F30F

      Scott s yellow eyes flick left and right as if he senses 
      something else in the woods as well.

                                  DEREK (CONT D)
                    They re already here.
                          (turning back to Scott)
                    Run.

      A second later Derek is on his feet, moving so fast he s 
      almost a blur. Scott barely has time to react when SOMETHING 
      COMES SOARING OUT OF THE DARKNESS.

      An ARROW lands in the trunk of a nearby tree. The bolt 
      EXPLODES with a BRILLIANT FLASH.

      Scott stumbles back, yellow eyes blinking furiously. 
      Something about the flash has perfectly compromised his 
      vision. When he looks up, Derek is gone. In his place--

      THREE FIGURES emerge from the shadows. Silhouettes at first, 
      they approach with purpose.

      They look like hunters. One carries a Remington pistol grip 
      shotgun. Another chambers a round in a Glock 21 handgun. The 
      third and obvious LEADER, wields a much stranger weapon--

      A CROSSBOW. Steel-tipped BOLT pulled back and ready to fire.

      Practically blinded, Scott can barely see a thing. Until his 
      eyes focus on the determined face of the Leader, raising the 
      crossbow to fire again.

      Scott tries to turn and run, but the arrow SOARS, tearing 
      through the darkness and right into Scott s forearm, pinning 
      it to a tree.

      SCOTT HOWLS IN PAIN.

      Lowering the crossbow, the Leader allows himself the 
      slightest of satisfied smiles.

                                  LEADER
                          (to the other hunters)
                    Take him...

      The 1st Hunter comes forward, but then A LARGE FIGURE HURTLES 
      UP behind him.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1047.

        CONTINUED:30F30F

      CLAWED HANDS grab the 1st Hunter by the back of his jacket 
      and hurl him into the air, easily tossing him into the 2nd 
      Hunter. 

      The Leader retreats back, calmly and quickly redrawing his 
      crossbow as--

      Derek tears out of the shadows toward Scott. In one swift 
      motion he snaps the shaft of the arrow in Scott s arm and 
      pulls him free.

                                  DEREK
                    Go!

      Scott charges forward, racing out of the clearing and back 
      into the woods with Derek right behind him.

      A SHOTGUN BLAST fires just over their heads followed by a 
      volley of GUNFIRE.

                                  DEREK (CONT'D)
                    Faster!

      But Scott eventually slows and underneath his damp hair, his 
      face has returned to normal. He s back in human form. He 
      staggers to a stop in the woods, gasping for breath. 

      When he looks up, Derek steps out of the darkness to face 
      him. He doesn t breathe hard at all, seemingly in perfect 
      control of his abilities.

                                  SCOTT
                    Who were they?

                                  DEREK
                    Hunters. The kind who ve been *
                    hunting us for centuries.*

                                  SCOTT
                    Us? You mean you. You did this to 
                    me!

                                  DEREK
                    Is it that bad, Scott? That you can *
                    see better, hear more clearly, move *
                    faster than any human could ever 
                    hope? You ve been given something 
                    most people would kill for. The 
                    bite is a gift.

                                  SCOTT
                    I don t want it.                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1048.

        CONTINUED:30F30F

                                  DEREK
                    You will. And you re going to need 
                    me if you want to learn to control 
                    it. You and me Scott. We re 
                    brothers now.


      The morning SUN beating down on an empty tree-shrouded road. 
      Scott slowly wanders his way home, not even seeming to notice 
      at first when Stiles s jeep pulls up next to him.

                                  STILES
                    Scott? Are you okay? I ve been 
                    driving all over looking for you.

      Exhausted, Scott slowly turns to his friend.

                                  SCOTT
                    You were right. About all of it.*


      Waiting on a bench outside school, Scott jumps to his feet 
      when he sees Allison come out the double doors.

                                    ALLISON
                    What happened to you last night? 
                    You left me stranded at the party.

                                  SCOTT
                    I know and I m sorry. I really am. 
                    But just trust me on this... I had 
                    a really good reason--

                                    ALLISON
                    Did you get sick?

                                  SCOTT
                      I definitely had an attack of 
                      something.

                                    ALLISON
                    Am I going to get an explanation?

                                  SCOTT
                    For now... could you find it in 
                    your heart to just trust me?

                                    ALLISON
                    Am I going to regret this?

                                  SCOTT
                    Probably.

      Scott takes a steps closer to her.

                                  SCOTT (CONT'D)
                    So are we agreeing on yes to a 
                    second chance?

                                    ALLISON
                      Definitely yes.

      Then, just as it looks like they re about to kiss. A HORN 
      BEEPS. An SUV pulling up to the front of the school.

                                    ALLISON (CONT'D)
                    That s my Dad. I better go.

      Scott nods, turning to head back. But then he pauses, head 
      tilting up with an intake of breath. He s caught a familiar 
      scent. Glancing back, he sees--                TEEN WOLF - Ep. 101 "Pilot" DBL Salmon - 10/15/1050.

      CONTINUED:3131

      Allison s father. The face is instantly recognizable. It s 
      the man with the crossbow. The LEADER of the HUNTERS.

      He throws Scott a friendly smile, clearly not recognizing the 
      boy as his prey from last night. 

      With the full weight of realization hitting Scott--the father 
      of the girl he loves is also now his sworn enemy--his face 
      clouds with dread, darkness surrounding him as--

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                    END OF PILOT