
      On the rural outskirts of a small California town called 
      Beacon Hills, POLICE OFFICERS and STATE TROOPERS gather on a 
      dirt road. At their sides, SEARCH DOGS bark and whine, 
      pulling their leashes taut.

      One by one, the Officers click on flashlights and then glance 
      to the LEAD OFFICER for his signal. Finally, he gives a nod. 
      Seconds later, a dozen streaks of light tear through the 
      shadowy woods. 

      A desperate search begun...


      Not far from those dense woods, a two-story home lies hidden 
      under a canopy of trees. A gentle wind drifts into the open 
      window of an upstairs bedroom where--


      The glass door to the porch slides open. Now armed with a 
      BASEBALL BAT, Scott starts for the yard. Breath held tight, 
      he moves cautiously off the porch steps.

      THE SOUND OF MOVEMENT stops him cold. 

      Holding still, he peers left and right as he white-knuckles 
      the bat, ready to swing. When his eyes wander up to the side 
      of house he sees--

      A DARK FIGURE climbing the vine-wrapped TRELLIS. Before Scott 
      even knows what s happening, the figure BREAKS free and comes 
      HURTLING toward him.

      Scott HOLLERS in terror as an upside down face appears in 
      front of him. He almost swings the bat before realizing who 
      it is.

                                  SCOTT
                    Stiles, what the hell are you 
                    doing?

                                  STILES
                    You weren t answering your phone.

      Feet caught in the trellis, STILES hangs in front of Scott. A 
      sixteen year-old with boundless energy, he continues talking 
      upside down as if this were a perfectly normal way to have a 
      conversation.

                                  STILES (CONT'D)
                    I know it s late, but you gotta  
                    hear this. I saw my dad leave 
                    twenty minutes ago. Dispatch 
                    called. They re bringing in every 
                    officer from the Beacon department 
                    and even State Police.

                                  SCOTT
                    For what?                                                                                      3.



                                  STILES
                    Two joggers found a body in the 
                    woods.

                                  SCOTT
                    A dead body?

                                  STILES
                    No, a body of water. Yes, dumbass, 
                    a dead body.

      Reaching up to pull himself free of the trellis, he lands on 
      his feet in front of Scott.

                                  SCOTT
                    You mean like murdered?

                                  STILES
                    Nobody knows yet. Just that it was 
                    a girl, probably in her twenties.

                                  SCOTT 
                    Hold on. If they found a body, what 
                    are they looking for now?

                                  STILES
                    That s the best part. They only 
                    found half.


      A beat-up jeep skids to a halt just beyond the heavily wooded 
      entrance to the Beacon Hills Preserve. Stiles gets out with a 
      flashlight in hand. Scott follows, hurrying to keep up with 
      him as he charges into the hiking paths.

                                  SCOTT
                    Are we seriously doing this?

                                  STILES
                    You re the one always bitching that 
                    nothing ever happens in this town. 
                    Besides, it s our last night of 
                    summer freedom.

                                  SCOTT
                    I was trying to get a good night s 
                    sleep for practice tomorrow.

                                  STILES
                    Right, because sitting on the bench 
                    is such a grueling effort.                                                                                      4.



                                  SCOTT
                    No, because I m playing this year. 
                    In fact, I m going to make starting 
                    lineup.

                                  STILES
                    That s the spirit. Everyone should 
                    have a dream. Even a pathetically 
                      unrealistic one.

                                  SCOTT
                    Just out of curiosity, which half 
                    of the body are we looking for?

                                  STILES 
                    Huh. I didn t even think about 
                    that.

                                  SCOTT
                    And what if whoever killed the girl 
                    is still out here?

                                  STILES
                    Also something I didn t think 
                    about.

                                  SCOTT
                      Comforting to know you ve planned 
                    this out with your usual attention 
                    to detail.

      Racing up the paths, Scott s breath begins to shorten.

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    Maybe the severe asthmatic should 
                    be the one holding the flashlight.

      Stiles slows, but not because of Scott. Outside a clearing, 
      YELLOW POLICE TAPE marks off a perimeter under FLOODLIGHTS.

      Grinning, Stiles looks to Scott who can t help but smile 
      back. Crouching low, they circle the crime scene looking for 
      the best vantage point. But they freeze at the sound of a 
      ZIPPER being pulled up on a BODY BAG. TWO BARE FEET are 
      momentarily visible as the zipper pulls closed and OFFICERS 
      lift the body bag up into the Medical Examiner s van.

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    Is that the second half of the 
                    body?                                                                                      5.



                                  STILES
                    No, they would have called off the 
                    search. Come on.

      He and Scott retreat from the perimeter back into the dark of 
      the woods. As they crest a hill, Stiles pauses. Below, 
      FLASHLIGHT BEAMS scour the shadows, the police search just 
      ahead. Unable to stand still, Stiles races forward.

                                  SCOTT
                    Stiles, wait up!

      But quickly running out of air, Scott pulls his inhaler from 
      his jacket. While he pauses to take a hit from it, Stiles 
      disappears up ahead. Then, realizing he s left Scott behind, 
      he slows to look back when--

      BARKING spins him around.

      FANGED TEETH SNAP FEROCIOUSLY at him, sending him staggering 
      away and falling right onto his ass. SEARCH DOGS yank back 
      against their leashes just before tearing him apart.

                                  STATE TROOPER
                    Stay right there!

      Scott freezes. It s not him the State Trooper was yelling at, 
      however. Peering out from behind a tree, he sees Stiles has 
      run right into a search party. Flashlight beams in his eyes, 
      the boy puts his hands in the air as large, threatening 
      figures hurry forward.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI (O.S.)
                    Hold on, hold on, this little 
                      delinquent belongs to me.

      DEPUTY STILINSKI steps into the light past the GROWLING 
      search dogs. Stiles shrinks under his glare.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI (CONT'D)
                    Do you listen in on all of my phone 
                    calls?

                                  STILES
                    No... Not the boring ones.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI
                    And where s your usual partner in 
                    crime?                                                                                      6.



                                  STILES
                    Who? Scott? Scott s home. Said he 
                    wanted to get a good night s sleep 
                    for the first day back at school.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI 
                          (calling out)
                    Scott? You out there?

      Hidden in the shadows, Scott doesn t move.

                                  DEPUTY STILINSKI (CONT'D)
                          (still clearly suspicious)
                    All right, young man, I m taking 
                    you back to your car and we re 
                    going to discuss a little something 
                    called Invasion of Privacy.

      Watching Stiles get escorted away, Scott steps out from the 
      cover of the trees with an irritated sigh.

      Starting back, he tries to find his way out of the woods, but 
      with each step it becomes increasingly difficult to see in 
      the pitch black.

      At a fork in the path, he pauses in confusion. He s about to 
      start off down one direction when he hears--

      A RUSTLING among the trees. 

      Scott holds still. Breath tightening more from fear than 
      asthma, he reaches into his pocket for his INHALER when--

      He hears an odd RUMBLING. The sound of sudden and furious 
      movement RISING in volume and velocity until--

      HALF A DOZEN DEER CHARGE OUT OF THE DARKNESS, soaring past 
      him with the thunderous BEAT of hooves trampling the ground.

      Startled, Scott DROPS THE INHALER. 

      Then, once again alone in the dark, he kneels down to the 
        leaf-covered ground to search for the inhaler. Pulling out 
      his cell phone, he LIGHTS the display.

      Guiding the phone s LIGHT over the ground, Scott doesn t find 
      his inhaler but does manage to briefly illuminate-- 

      A FACE.

      Dead eyes peer up from the pale, yet beautiful face of a 
      young woman torn in half.                                                                                      7.



      CRYING OUT IN SHOCK, Scott lurches up, tripping on his own 
      feet and tumbling over the unearthed roots of a tree. 
      Suddenly, he s propelled down a leaf-covered slope, rolling 
      head over heels right into--

      A CREEK BED.

      Pushing himself up from the icy water, a breathless Scott 
      looks up at the embankment down which he just fell. He s 
      about to stand when--

      A LOW GROWL stops him moving. Stops him breathing. Something 
      crouches in the shadows right near him. Something very large. 

      Scott slowly begins to turn around when--A SHAPE HURTLES 
      TOWARD HIM.

      For the briefest instant there s a flash of razor-sharp 
      teeth. Scott twists forward, CRYING OUT. Then, seeming to 
      disentangle himself from the attacking animal, he scrambles 
      back to his feet and into a panicked run. 

      Whipping through branches tearing at his skin and clothes, he 
      races blindly through the forest until he reaches--

      A BARBED WIRE FENCE.

      With barely a second to coordinate his effort, Scott lurches 
      over the wire, shirt catching and tearing across the barbs.


      Crashing out of the woods and into the road, Scott whirls 
      around to face AN ONCOMING CAR. The driver swerves, almost 
      clipping him. HORN BLARING, the car hurtles past.

      Breathless, Scott backs away from the woods. With the world 
      spinning around him, dark blood sticks his tattered shirt to 
      his back over--A DEEP AND VICIOUS LOOKING BITE.

      Struggling for calm, he whips around when he hears the 
      strangest sound.

      THE HOWLING OF A WOLF.

      It echoes through the hills, over the trees, across the 
      rooftops and into the night...

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                  END OF ACT ONE                                                                                      8.


                                        ACT TWO

      FADE IN:


      A WHISTLE BLOWS. The Lacrosse Team s Assistant Coach gathers 
      the team on the field, Stiles and Scott lagging behind.

                                  STILES
                    Just think about this. If you play 
                    I ll have no one to talk to on the 
                    bench. You really gonna  do that to 
                    your best friend?

                                  SCOTT
                    I can t sit out again. My whole 
                    life is sitting on the sidelines. 
                    This season, I make first string.

      Heading for the field, he pauses to notice Lydia climbing the 
      bleachers. And stepping right behind her... Allison.

                                  COACH
                    McCall! You re in the goal.

      Scott trots over to the COACH, a man with little 
      comprehension of the difficulties of teenage life.

                                  SCOTT
                    But I ve never played goal.

                                  COACH
                    I know. Scoring some shots will 
                    give the boys a confidence boost. 
                    It s a first day back thing. Get 
                    them energized, jazzed up.

                                  SCOTT
                    What about me?

                                  COACH
                    Try not to take any in the face.

      Stepping into the net, Scott glances to the bleachers where 
      Allison watches with Lydia, eyes focusing on them.

                                  LYDIA
                    Him? I m not sure who he is. Why?                                                                                    15.



                                    ALLISON
                    He s in my English class.

      Scott looks up, shocked to hear Allison asking about him. But 
      with his hearing momentarily turned up, he flinches at the 
      WHISTLE BLOW, sound RINGING through his skull.

      One of the bigger players charges forward as the Assistant 
      Coach passes the ball to him. Catching it, he whips his stick 
      forward, HURLING the ball toward the goal.

      Still reeling from the WHISTLE, Scott looks up too late to 
      see the ball soaring toward him. IT BOUNCES RIGHT OFF HIS 
      HELMET and into the net. 

      The team LAUGHS wickedly. Even the Coach snickers.

      Cheeks burning under his mask, Scott steals himself for the 
      next player. When the WHISTLE BLOWS again, he s ready. The 
      Assistant Coach passes the ball to the player who catches it 
      and FIRES it right at the goal.

      Scott moves startlingly fast, almost an instantaneous 
      reaction. Then he notices the player staring at him with a 
      mixture of disappointment and surprise. Scott has the ball. 

      He caught it. When the next player takes the shot, Scott 
      catches the ball again. And then again. And again. Nothing 
      can get past him.

      In the bleachers, Allison and Lydia sit forward.

                                    ALLISON (CONT'D)
                    He seems like he s pretty good.

                                  LYDIA
                    Very good.

      Intrigued, Lydia keeps her gaze locked on Scott who now 
      stands with a far more confident posture. Until Jackson 
      pushes to the head of the line. Glaring at Scott, he 
      practically strangles the lacrosse stick with his gloves.

                                  SCOTT
                    Oh God...

      The Assistant Coach tosses the ball up. Jackson launches 
      forward, catching the ball and spinning around to fire it at 
      the goal. But Scott moves with supernatural precision.

      The ball lands right in the pocket of the goalie stick.                                                                                    16.



      Stiles lets out a HOLLER, jumping up on the bench. In the 
      bleachers, Lydia stands and gives a WHOOP as well causing 
      Jackson to throw a look at her. She returns his glare with a 
      sly smile, a warning to step up his game.

      Grinning, Scott gives the goalie stick a whirl, spinning it 
      with a flick of his wrist and sending the ball soaring right 
      into the pocket of the stunned Assistant Coach s stick.


      In the woods, Scott retraces his steps from last night with 
      Stiles following behind him.

                                  SCOTT
                    I don t know what it was. I mean I 
                    felt like I had all the time in the 
                    world to catch the ball. And that s 
                    not the only weird thing. I mean I 
                    can hear stuff I shouldn t be able 
                    to hear. And I can smell things.

                                  STILES
                    Smell things? Like what?

                                  SCOTT
                    Like the mint mojito gum in your 
                    pocket.

                                  STILES
                    I don t have any...

      Stiles pulls out a lint-covered piece of wrapped gum.

                                  STILES (CONT'D)
                    All this started with the bite?

                                  SCOTT
                    What if it s an infection? What if 
                    my body is flooding with adrenaline 
                    before I fall into shock? I knew I 
                    should have gone to the ER.

                                  STILES 
                    I ve actually heard of this. It s a 
                    specific kind of infection.

                                  SCOTT
                    Are you serious?

                                  STILES
                    All the symptoms add up. I think 
                    it s called... Lycanthropy.                                                                                    17.



                                  SCOTT
                    What s that? Is it bad? It sounds 
                    bad.

                                  STILES
                    It is. But only once a month.

                                  SCOTT
                    Once a month?

                                  STILES
                    On the night of a full moon.

      Scott looks at him. And then gets it.

                                  SCOTT
                    You re an ass.

                                  STILES
                    Hey, you re the one who heard a 
                    wolf howling.

                                  SCOTT
                    There could be something seriously 
                    wrong with me.

                                  STILES
                    I know! You re a werewolf!
                          (off his look)
                    Okay, obviously, I m kidding. But 
                    if you see me in shop class melting 
                    down all the silver I can find it s 
                    because Friday s a full moon.

                                  SCOTT
                          (glancing around)
                    I swear this was it. The body was 
                    here. The deer came running, I 
                    dropped my inhaler...

                                  STILES
                    Maybe the killer moved the body.

                                  SCOTT
                    If he did, I hope he left my 
                    inhaler. Those things are like 
                    eighty bucks.

      Stiles taps him on the arm, bringing his attention to a 
      FIGURE standing just a few yards away.

      DEREK HALE. Nineteen and unquestionably handsome, he has a 
      rougher look than the cleanly shaven Beacon Hills boys.                                                                                    18.



                                  DEREK
                    What are you doing here?

      Both Scott and Stiles are too stunned to speak at first.

                                  DEREK (CONT'D)
                    This is private property.

                                  STILES
                    Sorry, we didn t know.

      Derek stares at Scott, barely noticing Stiles.

                                  SCOTT
                    We were just looking for something. 
                    Forget it. Sorry to bother you.

      As they re turning to go, Derek tosses an OBJECT to Scott. 
      HIS INHALER. When he looks up, Derek is already walking away.

                                  SCOTT (CONT D)
                    Come on. I have to get to work.

                                  STILES
                    Dude, that was Derek Hale. You 
                    remember, right? He s only a few 
                    years older than us.

                                  SCOTT
                    Remember what?

                                  STILES
                    His family. They all burned to 
                    death in a fire like ten years ago. 
                      I remember the cops pulling him out 
                    of class to tell him.

                                  SCOTT
                    I wonder what he s doing back.

      Scott eyes the inhaler in his hand, closing his fist over it.

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                  END OF ACT TWO                                                                                    19.


                                      ACT THREE

      FADE IN:


      Following Allison to her car under the now drizzling rain, 
      Scott opens the back seat door to reveal an injured stray. 
      Hackles raised, the frightened lab mix is clearly in pain. 
      Allison reaches in to pick him up but the dog snaps at her. 
      She flinches back, stepping right into Scott s arms.

                                  SCOTT
                    You okay?

      She nods, looking up at Scott behind her, his hands on her 
      forearms, fingers lightly touching her soft skin.

                                  SCOTT (CONT'D)
                    He s just frightened.

                                    ALLISON
                    That makes two of us.

                                  SCOTT
                    Let me see if I have better luck.

      Letting her go, Scott steps toward the open door, oddly calm.

                                    ALLISON
                    Careful.

      As he connects eyes with the dog, something happens... SOUND 
      drops out around him, all except for the dog s nervous 
      PANTING. Then its harsh gasps begin to ease as some sort of 
      primal communication occurs between them. 

      CLOSE ON SCOTT - for the briefest moment, his EYES take on a 
      strangely YELLOW tint, like that of a wolf.

      In response, the dog lowers its body submissively, yielding 
      to the obviously dominant animal. 

      With Allison watching in amazement, Scott gathers the dog 
      into his arms and carries him into the vet s office.                                                                                    21.




      Tearing down the road on his bike, a huge smile nearly splits 
      Scott s face in half. He s ecstatic. Jubilant. But not for 
      long...

      He slows. Smile fading, something has caught his attention.  
      He eases to a stop on the rain-slick road and holds still. 
      Turning his head up, he takes a quick whiff of the air.

      Slowly, he turns around to find dark woods surrounding him on 
      all sides. The road completely empty. Strangely quiet. 

      THEN THE SOUND OF MOVEMENT catches his ear.

      He turns, peering into the woods. Nothing. He starts pedaling 
      again, glancing to each side of him as he picks up speed.

      Then he notices a SHADOW. Moving through the woods. Keeping 
      pace with him. When he starts pedaling faster, that strange 
      loping SILHOUETTE moves just as fast.

      Pedaling harder and harder, Scott pushes the bike to its 
      limits, steel chain threatening to come off.                                                                                    24.



      The SHADOW slows, letting him get ahead. Not at all relieved, 
      Scott keeps going, looking back to see--

      SOMETHING LARGE AND FAST crossing the road just a few yards 
      behind him, diving into the dark of the woods.

      Now on the other side of the road and driving Scott s panic 
      higher and higher, it keeps pace with him once again until--

      It disappears. A breathless Scott gives a last glance back to 
      the woods on both sides and then forward where--

      A TRUCK VEERS OUT IN FRONT OF HIM. 

      An eighteen wheeler coming from a side road. Scott hits the 
      brakes, the truck LOOMING before him. Bike CRASHING against 
      the hood of the cab, it flips up and smacks down on the road, 
      metal SCRAPING pavement as it CLATTERS to a stop.

      The TRUCK DRIVER jumps out, glancing around in panic. But 
      there s no body on the ground. So he finally peers up where--

      Scott stands on top of the truck. 

      Perched right on the cab. Eyes wide, he looks down, terrified 
      but also strangely exhilarated.

                                  DRIVER
                    What the hell?

      Breathless, Scott is too stunned to even answer.

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                  END OF ACT THREE                                                                                    25.


                                        ACT FOUR

      FADE IN:


      Amid the players rushing the field, a very late Stiles finds 
      Scott in the crowd and hurries toward him.

                                  STILES
                    Scott, wait up! You gotta  hear 
                    this.

                                  SCOTT
                    I m playing the first elimination, 
                    Stiles. Can t it wait?

                                  STILES
                    Just hold on. I overheard my Dad on 
                    the phone. The fiber analysis 
                    report came back from LA and they 
                    found animal hairs on the body from 
                    the woods.

                                  SCOTT
                    Stiles, I have to go.

                                  STILES 
                    You re not going to believe what 
                    the animal was--

      But with his helmet on, Scott disappears in the crowd of 
      other players rushing the field, leaving Stiles to say the 
      next words to himself.

                                  STILES (CONT'D)
                    It was a wolf.

      OUT ON THE FIELD the Coach shouts for the players.

                                  COACH
                    All right, gather round...

      Scott glances to the bleachers where students and parents sit 
      to watch the special scrimmage. He spots Allison next to 
      Lydia. She gives him a quick wave and a smile. He holds up a 
      hand to wave back.

                                  COACH (CONT D)
                    You got a question, McCall?

                                  SCOTT
                    What?                                                                                    26.



                                  COACH
                    You raised your hand.

                                  SCOTT
                    Oh, no I was just--nothing. Sorry.

                                  COACH
                          (to the rest of the team)
                    All right, you know how this goes. 
                    If you don t make the cut, you re 
                    most likely warming the bench the 
                    rest of the season. But make first 
                    string and you play, your parents 
                    are proud, your girlfriend loves 
                    you, everything else is cream 
                    cheese. Now show me what you got.

      The WHISTLE blows and the game begins.

      The pace is fast and brutal. When the ball gets passed to 
      Scott, Jackson comes right after him. Lacrosse sticks 
      smacking down on his gloves, Scott tumbles forward and slams 
      to the ground, kicking up dirt around him.

      The WHISTLE stops the play.

      Jackson stands over Scott, glowering down at him as he picks 
      the ball up with a gloved hand. Teeth clenched behind his 
      mask, Scott pushes himself up off the ground.

      Coach gives the WHISTLE a SHARP BLOW, starting the next play. 

      Scott and Jackson find themselves staring across from each 
      other at the draw, crouched down with their sticks waiting 
      for the Assistant Coach to drop the ball.

      At the WHISTLE, Scott moves with shocking speed, grabbing the 
      ball right out from under Jackson.

      AT THE BENCHES - Stiles stands, slowly moving to the 
      sidelines to watch.

      Scott charges the length of the field. DEFENSE lashes out 
      with their sticks, but he parries expertly.

      Jackson catches up and makes a furious stab at stealing the 
      ball. Then with Defense converging on him--

      Scott twists his lacrosse stick around, keeping the ball 
      safely in the pocket while he literally FLIPS FORWARD, 
      leaping right over the heads of the Defensive Players. Feet 
      landing on the turf, he whirls around, tossing the ball in an 
      over the shoulder shot past the goalie--                                                                                    27.



      Right into the net.

      The crowd in the bleachers ROARS with CHEERING, Allison on 
      her feet along with everyone else. Everyone except Stiles.

                                  COACH (CONT'D)
                    McCall, get over here!

      He trots over to the Coach, all eyes on him.

                                  COACH (CONT D)
                    What in the name of God was that? 
                    This is a lacrosse field. Are you 
                    trying out for the gymnastics team?

                                  SCOTT
                    No, Coach.

                                  COACH
                    Then what the hell was that?

                                  SCOTT
                    I don t know. I was just trying to 
                    make the shot.

                                  COACH
                    Well, you made the shot. And guess 
                    what? You just made starting 
                    lineup.

      CHEERS ERUPT around him. As team members slap him on the back 
      and knock his helmet with their gloves, a deliriously happy 
      Scott doesn t even notice Jackson s furious stare.

      Or Stiles. Watching with a very worried look.


      Outside the house, Scott and his Mom can be heard talking.

                                  SCOTT
                    I don t even have a razor.


      Then further down the street, their voices take on the same 
      EFFECT as those that Scott could hear when he was listening 
      in on conversations at school and the police station.

                                    MELISSA MCCALL
                    You better borrow one of mine. I ll 
                    go get it. Stay right here.

      No less than a hundred yards away but still within the line 
      of sight of the house, someone stands beside a black Dodge 
      Challenger, listening in on the conversation... Derek Hale.


      In the backyard of a dimly lit house, Scott and Allison stand 
      awkwardly among a crowd of a drunk and high teenagers. Scott 
      peers down at the table with the booze.                                                                                    33.



                                  SCOTT
                    So what do you drink?

                                    ALLISON
                    Um... I don t know.

                                  SCOTT
                    Me either, actually. Maybe we 
                    should try beer? Wait here, I ll 
                    hit the keg.

                                    ALLISON
                    Perfect.

      Near a blazing fire pit, Scott fills up two cups at the 
      crowded keg when a SOUND catches his attention.

      A DOG BARKING. A huge ROTTWEILER in the yard next door just 
      beyond a chain link fence. And it s barking at Derek.

      He stands behind the fire pit, staring straight at Scott. But 
      then he shoots a look at the Rottweiler. The dog stops 
      barking instantly. 

      Eyes locked on the animal, Derek gives an almost 
      imperceptible nod. Tail between its legs, the Rottweiler 
        submissively lowers to a sitting position.

      Satisfied, Derek turns back to Scott who grips the two 
      overflowing cups in his hands. And for the briefest second, 
      Derek s EYES FLASH YELLOW.

                                  PARTY-GOER
                    Dude, you done?

      A stunned Scott hands off the keg tap to the Party-Goer. When 
      he looks back to the fire pit--

      Derek is gone.

      Scott turns, glancing to the other teens in the yard, to the 
      chain link fence and then up to--

      THE ROOF - where a shadowy figure seems to disappear just 
      past the chimney.

      Scott steps back, trying to see if he actually did just 
      witness Derek leaping twenty feet off the ground. But there s 
      nothing there.                                                                                    34.




      Harley finds Stiles near the fire-pit outside.                                                                                    36.



                                  HARLEY
                    Hey, I just saw Scott leave. I 
                    think he had too much to drink.

                                  STILES
                    What? What do you mean?

      But before she can answer, a PANICKED PARTY-GOER charges in 
      from the back door.

                                  PANICKED PARTY-GOER
                    Cops are here!

      Suddenly everyone is moving, darting for an escape.


      Bedroom window thrown open, Scott launches himself out from 
      the second story fifteen feet up. When his feet hit the 
      pavement, his crouched figure slowly draws up to reveal he s 
      no longer struggling against the transformation.

      He s given into it.

      Not the hulking beast of most werewolf horror films, this is 
      a leaner, more human monster. Both powerfully muscular and 
      strangely seductive with gleaming yellow eyes, incisors 
      reformed into fangs, ears tapered to points over thickened, 
      wilder hair and fingernails grown to razor sharp claws.

      The sixteen year-old boy is gone. Scott is now a WEREWOLF, 
      charging down the driveway and into the darkness in search of 
      Allison and the danger she faces.

                                                                  FADE TO BLACK.


                            END OF PILOT PRESENTATION