
      The dropship, like the Ark, has been cobbled together.   
      Three levels stacked from largest to smallest.  Pyramidal. 

      Right now, it s in free-fall, sparks becoming flames as the 
      heat shield meets the thickening atmosphere.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (V.O.)
                    You have just begun the descent 
                    into Earth s atmosphere.  I won t 
                    lie.  We have no idea what waits 
                    for you down there...                                                                                        9



      CLOSE ON THE DOOR as Octavia steps out, looking around in 
      wide-eyed amazement.  Behind her, the others are waiting, 
      mainly because Bellamy won t let anyone follow.  

      As Octavia descends the short staircase, WE WIDEN OUT:    

      The ship has come to rest in the middle of A PRIMORDIAL 
      FOREST.  Fallen trees are everywhere, many still smoldering.  

      Taking in everything, Octavia milks her  one small step for 
      man  moment for several long seconds, before finally 
      thrusting out her arms and BELLOWING:

                                    OCTAVIA
                    WE RE BACK, BITCHES!!

      Neil Armstrong had nothing on Octavia.

      It incites a mad rush from the ship.  

      The STAMPEDE forces Clarke aside as they just keep coming, 
      reveling in the warmth of the sun on their skin.  The scent 
      of real air in their lungs.  The sight of so much green. 

      Already we sense something primal happening here.  A century 
      of pent-up instinct being released at once.  Soon reality 
      will crash down, but, for these few moments the fact that 
      they are young, alive, and on solid ground is combustible.  

      Let the wild rumpus start.  

      Clarke descends the stairs slowly, pausing on the bottom step 
      to nod at the occasion, before finally, at long last, setting 
      foot on the ground.  Something dreamt of all her life passes 
      without fanfare.  There will be time for that later.  

      For now, she can t shake the feeling that something is wrong.  

      Determined to figure it out, she heads for the nearest tree.  

      Passing a BOY using a rolled up map as a sword, she snatches 
      it from him, puts it between her teeth, and starts to climb. 

      WE CLIMB WITH HER, rising above the celebration, LAUGHTER and 
      SHOUTS OF JOY receding as she pulls herself higher, finally 
      stopping as the leaves thin and the view steals her breath:

      DENSELY FORESTED, MIST-SHROUDED MOUNTAINS as far as the eye 
      can see.  The stuff of fairy tales and nightmares.  

      Finding a perch, she unrolls the map and holds it out, trying 
      to orient it to the various surrounding peaks when she hears:                                                                                      16


                                  FINN (O.S.)
                    Why so serious, Princess?

      Surprised she s not alone, she looks over, sees Finn already 
      perched in a neighboring tree.

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    It s not like we died in a fiery 
                      explosion.

      She looks back out, back to the map...

                                  CLARKE
                    Tell that to the two boys who 
                    followed you out of their seats.

      It strikes Finn hard, making the point: don t call her 
      princess.  She points to a distant mountain top...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    You see that peak over there?  

                                  FINN
                    Yeah.

                                  CLARKE
                    Mount Weather.  There s a radiation 
                    soaked forest between us and our 
                    next meal. 

      Having gotten what she came for, she re-rolls the map.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    They dropped us on the wrong 
                    goddamn mountain.

      Finn looks back out.  Shit.  A good view spoiled by the 
      realization that they are well and truly fucked.   

 

                                        END ACT ONE                                                                                      17


                                            ACT TWO



      The beautiful mess that is the Ark drifts in pure silence two 
      hundred and fifty-seven miles above the Earth.



      The Hundred have spread out amid the trees all around the 
      incongruously located ship.                                                                                        21


      For the most part, girls and boys are separate.  Athletes 
      tend to hang together.  Delinquents, too.  The more things 
      change... and all that.

      But there s a more subtle segregation (that we ll explore in 
      series), based on which of the Ark s stations a person comes 
      from.  Station rivalries will make cooperation difficult, 
      friendships rare, and romances potentially dangerous.

      For now, the ongoing revelry blurs these fault-lines.     
      It s clear at once that bad news has yet to arrive.    

      Then Wells strides from the ship.  He spots Clarke kneeling 
      over the map beside the stairs and drops down beside her...  

                                  WELLS
                    We got problems.

      She doesn t look at him, still can t believe he s here.  

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    The communication system is dead.  
                    I went to the roof.  A dozen panels 
                    are missing.  Heat fried the wires.  

                                  CLARKE
                          (pushing past it)
                    Right now all that matters is 
                    getting to Mount Weather. 

      Using the peaks she observed earlier in the tree above,    
      she draws lines, tapping the spot where they intersect.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    This is us.
                          (tapping Mount Weather)
                    This is where we need to be if we 
                    wanna survive.

                                  WELLS
                    Where d you learn to do that?

      She looks over heavily.  He knows the answer.  Guilt returns.

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    Your father.

                                  CLARKE
                          (getting in his face)
                    Let s get something straight, okay?  
                    What I said on the way down, I 
                    meant.  But you re here--God knows 
                    why--so we re gonna have to work 
                    together.  That does not mean --                                                                                      22


                                  WELLS
                    I chopped down the Last Tree.

      It stops her cold.  She s dumbfounded...

                                  CLARKE
                    The willow?  I loved that tree.

                                  WELLS
                    Me, too.  We had our first kiss 
                    under it... But I needed to do  
                    something that would get me on   
                    the dropship. 

                                  CLARKE
                    Good for you, Wells.  Now I hate 
                    you and think you re a dick. 

      Just then, a skinny 16-year-old boy steps up beside Clarke.  
      JASPER is utterly nonthreatening and a total charmer...

                                  JASPER
                    Cool, a map.  They got a bar in 
                    this town?  I ll buy yah a beer.

      Clarke smiles.  Wells spins Jasper around, pushing him away.

                                  WELLS
                    You mind?  

      ANOTHER BOY sees this and strides up.  This one is 
        threatening.  So is the posse of DELINQUENTS behind him.  

                                  BOY
                    Hey!  Hands off!  He s with us!

                                  WELLS
                    Relax.  We re just trying to figure 
                    out where we are.

      Bellamy and Octavia wander up on the other side...

                                    BELLAMY 
                    We re on the ground.  That s not 
                    good enough for you?

                                  WELLS
                    We need to find Mount Weather.
                          (to the gathering crowd)
                    You heard my father s message.  
                    That has to be our first priority.

      Gasoline meet fire.                                                                                        23


                                    OCTAVIA
                    Screw your father!  You think 
                    you re in charge here?  You and 
                    your little princess?

                                  WELLS
                    Don t call her princess.

      Of course, that prompts calls of PRINCESS from all around.  
      Clarke shakes her head slightly, then...

                                  CLARKE
                    You think we care who s in charge? 
                    We need to find Mount Weather.   
                    Not because the Chancellor said so, 
                    but because the longer we wait, the 
                    hungrier we ll get, the harder 
                    it ll be.  How long do you think 
                    we ll last out here without those 
                    supplies? 

      It cuts through.  Some people are just natural-born leaders.  

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    We re looking at a 20 mile trek.  
                    If we wanna make it before dark,  
                    we need to leave... now.  

                                    BELLAMY
                    I got a better idea... You two go.  
                    Find it for us.  Let the privileged 
                    do the hard work for a change.

      A CHEER goes up.  Bellamy is surprised by it, likes the 
      feeling.  Clarke regards him warily.  Wells plows ahead...

                                  WELLS
                    You re not listening.  We all need 
                    to go. 

      Just then, a particularly rough boy, JOHN, 17, steps up, 
      shoving Wells in the back.

                                  JOHN
                    Look, everybody.  It s the 
                      Chancellor of Earth.

      LAUGHTER from the crowd.  Wells rounds...

                                  WELLS
                    You think that s funny?

      Without blinking, John executes a vicious leg sweep,  
      throwing Wells to the ground.                                                                                      24


                                  JOHN
                    No... but that is.

      Wells gets back to his feet, badly favoring one leg, but 
      ready to fight.  

      The crowd circles, relishing the chance to watch the 
        Chancellor s son get the shit beat out of him.

      Clarke wants to step in, but before she can, Finn drops from 
      the trees above, riding a bending branch to the ground,  
      touching down right between the two combatants.    

      His presence has an instant effect.  The crowd is star-
      struck, wowed by the acrobatic entrance...

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Whoa.  Sweet.

                                  FINN
                    Thanks.  Hold this.

      He hands the branch to John.  The moment the smaller boy has 
      a hold, Finn lets go.  The recoil sends John flying.

      The crowd ROARS with delight.  John s friends break his fall.  

      And, just like that, the tension is gone.

      Clarke is impressed, shooting Finn an appreciative glance,    
      as Octavia steps between them...

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Hey, Spacewalker... Rescue me next?

      Finn smiles, but says nothing as a GROUP OF FRIENDS from his 
      home station surround to greet him warmly.  

      WE HOLD ON OCTAVIA AND BELLAMY as she clocks her brother s 
      obvious disapproval...

                                    OCTAVIA (CONT D)
                    What?  He s cute.

                                    BELLAMY
                    He s a criminal.  

                                    OCTAVIA
                    They re all criminals.  

      Bellamy takes her arm, guides her aside, lowers his voice...

                                    BELLAMY
                    I came down here to protect you.                                                                                      25


                                    OCTAVIA
                    I don t need protecting!  I ve been 
                    locked up, one way or another,   
                    all my life.  I am done following 
                    orders.  I need to have fun, Bell.  
                    I need to do something crazy just 
                    because I can.  And no one, 
                    including you, is gonna stop me.

      Bellamy understands, but, at the moment, he has bigger 
      problems than his sister s need for excitement...

                                    BELLAMY
                    I can t stay with them, O.

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Now what are you talking about?

                                    BELLAMY
                    I did something, okay?  To get on 
                    the dropship.  Something they ll 
                    kill me for when they come down.  
                          (before she can ask)
                    I can t tell you what it is yet, 
                    but you have to trust me.  You do 
                    still trust me, don t you?

      She hesitates, but nods.  He smiles slightly, then...

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    Good.  Then let s go.  You can help 
                    me convince the guys from our 
                    station to come with us.

      Thinking it s settled, he walks off.  Octavia knows she 
      should follow, but looks back to Finn instead.

      ON FINN -- stepping to Clarke as she finishes examining  
      Wells  ankle, her medical training in evidence...  

                                  FINN
                    When do we leave?

      Wells was about to thank him, doesn t.  Takes Clarke a moment 
      to realize he s volunteering for the trek to Mount Weather...  

                                  CLARKE
                    Right now.  

      She stands.  Wells looks at her, his expression darkening.                                                                                      26


                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    We ll be back tomorrow with food.  
                    Once the others know the supplies 
                    are still there, they ll follow.

                                  WELLS
                    How are two of you gonna carry 
                    enough food for a hundred? 

      Without a word, Finn collars Jasper and ANOTHER BOY from   
      the crowd.  We ll introduce them properly in the next act.  
      For now, just know they re thrilled to get Finn s attention.

                                  FINN
                    Four of us.  Can we go now?

      That s when Octavia sashays toward them...

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Sounds like a party.  Make it five. 

      Bellamy hurries behind her, catching her arm...

                                    BELLAMY
                    What the hell are you doing?!  

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Going for a walk!

      She tears her arm away.  Before Bellamy can figure out how to 
      avoid a scene, Clarke makes one of her own, grabbing Finn s 
      wristband, turning it to reveal what appear to be saw marks.

                                  CLARKE
                    Were you trying to take this off?

                                  FINN
                    Yeah.  So?

                                  CLARKE
                    So this wristband transmits your 
                    vital signs to the Ark.  Take it 
                    off and they ll think you re dead.  

                                  FINN
                    Should I care? 

                                  CLARKE
                    I don t know.  You want the people 
                    you love to think you re dead?

      It stops Finn.  Clearly, he doesn t.                                                                                            27


                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    You want them to follow you down 
                    here in two months?  Because they 
                    won t if they think we re dying. 

      Bellamy s reaction to this warrants A CLOSE UP:  It s the 
      look of someone being struck by a powerful idea.  

      Finn nods, understanding.  Clarke drops his arm...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    Okay.  Then move out.

      Finn walks off.  His two recruits follow.  Octavia wants to, 
      but looks first to Bellamy.  He whispers conspiratorially...

                                    BELLAMY
                    If they think we re dying, they 
                    won t follow us down.

      Octavia doesn t understand, cares even less.  He has no 
      choice but to let her...

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    Go.  I ve got work to do.

      A kiss on his cheek and she hurries after the others.  

      Finally, Clarke looks back to Wells...

                                  CLARKE
                    Find a walking stick and look    
                    for water.  If they think they need 
                    you, maybe they ll let you live.

      With that, she walks off, too.  WE GO WITH HER as Octavia 
      slows to let her catch up, looking over threateningly...

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Before you get any ideas...   
                    Finn s mine.

      Clarke is taken aback by her hostility, but recovers fast...

                                  CLARKE
                    Before you get any ideas...        
                    I don t care.  

      As they walk out of frame, we HOLD ON BELLAMY AND WELLS,  
      each watching people they love get swallowed by the forest.  

      Bellamy looks away first, turning his attention to the 
      wristbands all around him, a sly smile telling us a plan is 
      taking shape, as Wells watches him with deepening suspicion.                                                                                      28



      Several hours into the trek.  The group has fanned out amid 
      the trees.  Sunlight dapples.  Wildflowers are everywhere.  

      Clarke has assumed the lead and is setting a fast pace, 
        appreciating none of it.

      Behind her, Octavia, Finn, and his two recruits all wish that 
      she would slow down to let them enjoy the scenery.  

      JASPER and MONTY, both 15, are, on the surface, the furthest 
      thing from delinquents.  They are clearly very intelligent 
      and, it must be said, incredibly uncool.  The fact that 
      they re studying Finn to remedy this will become clear.

      As we arrive, Finn stops to pick a flower and slip it into 
      Octavia s hair.  She d jump him here and now if he d let her.  

      Jasper and Monty see this and exchange a glance...

                                  JASPER
                    That, my friend, is game.

                                  MONTY
                    That, my friend, is poison sumac.

                                    OCTAVIA
                          (swatting away the flower)
                    Jesus, Finn!  Thank you.

                                  MONTY
                    Don t worry.  The flowers aren t 
                      poisonous.  They re medicinal.  
                    Calming actually.

      He pops one in his mouth.  Finn and Octavia are curious.

                                  JASPER
                    His family grows all the 
                      pharmaceuticals.

                                  CLARKE
                          (abruptly turning around)
                    Hey!  Try to keep up.

                                  FINN
                    Come on, Clarke, look around you.  
                    How do you block all this out?

      Clarke scratches an X into a tree to mark their path, then...                                                                                      31


                                  CLARKE
                    It s simple.  I wonder: why haven t 
                    we seen any animals?  Hm.  Maybe 
                    it s because there are none.   
                    Maybe we ve already been exposed  
                    to enough radiation to kill us...  
                    Sure is pretty, though.

      With that, she strides onward.  The others follow, their buzz 
        sufficiently killed.  

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Someone should slip her some  
                    poison sumac.

      Jasper LAUGHS a bit too loudly.  Monty smacks him.  

                                  FINN
                    I gotta know what you two did to 
                    get busted.   

                                  MONTY
                          (after a beat)
                    Sumac s not the only herb in the 
                    garden, if you know what I mean.

                                  JASPER
                          (meaning Monty)
                    Someone forgot to replace what    
                    we took.

                                  MONTY
                    Someone s apologized like a 
                    thousand times.

                                  JASPER
                    How  bout you Octavia?  What d they 
                    get you for?

      Looks for a moment like she isn t going to respond, then...

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Being born.

      With that, she speeds up to catch Clarke. 

                                  MONTY
                    That is so not game.

      Before Jasper can respond, they notice that Clarke has 
      stopped and is holding out a hand for them to do the same.  

      Octavia sees what Clarke sees and gestures the boys excitedly 
      closer.  They creep up slowly.  Clarke points.                                                                                        32


      WE SEE IT AS THEY DO:  A grazing deer.  Partially obscured by 
      brush, it s the first sign of life other than insects and 
      plants they ve seen and it has a profound effect on them all. 

                                  FINN
                    You were saying?

                                  MONTY
                    Can we eat it?

      They all look at him in disgust.

                                  MONTY (CONT D)
                    Kidding.

      Finn wants a better view, gestures for silence, pads closer.  

      One step and the animal looks up, revealing, to their horror, 
      that IT HAS TWO HEADS.  One is hideously deformed.    

        A collective GASP and the mutant deer bolts.



      Leaning on a walking stick, Wells limps into camp, a pile of 
      kindling under one arm.  The mood here has dimmed a bit.  
      People are hungry, thirsty.  Still they play, flirt, fight.  

      TWO KIDS, covered in mud, approach Wells...  

                                  ONE OF THE KIDS
                    We finished burying the bodies.  
                    You find any water yet?

      Wells drops the sticks in a growing pile, then...

                                  WELLS
                    Not yet.  I m going out again if 
                    you wanna join. 

      They nod.  Wells is about to lead them back out when he sees 
      a message scratched in the dirt.  His helpers see it, too:

                                  FIRST SON/FIRST TO DYE

      It s unsettling to say the least, but Wells swallows it and 
      looks around to see who did it.  Doesn t take long.  

      The boy who already assaulted him watches from nearby with 
      another dangerous-looking lad, conveniently also named JOHN. 

      Wells limps toward them, knows not to show fear...                                                                                      33


                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    You spelled die wrong.  

                                  JOHN #1
                    You sure you wanna do this?        
                    I don t see Finn or your daddy    
                    in any of these trees.

                                  WELLS
                    Actually, I m sure I don t wanna do 
                    this.  What I wanna do is find 
                    water and make a fire because I m 
                    thirsty and it s gonna be dark 
                    soon... We could use some help.  

      The Johns feel the eyes of the group.  John #1 draws a shiv 
      and steps to Wells with unmistakable menace.

      Wells stands his ground, but is clearly afraid.  This is not 
      a situation he s faced before.  Not just schoolyard bullies.  

                                  JOHN #1
                          (a menacing whisper)
                    My dad begged for mercy in the 
                    airlock when your dad floated him.

      Wells goes pale.  

                                    BELLAMY (O.S.)
                    What s the problem here?  

      They see him approaching.  The uniform prompts an instinctive 
      backing down.  The Johns melt into the crowd.  Wells is still 
      suspicious of Bellamy, but appreciative nonetheless...

                                  WELLS
                    Thanks. 

      He holds out a hand, but Bellamy doesn t take it...

                                    BELLAMY
                    I meant what s your problem?

      The Johns drift back.  Wells summons courage...

                                  WELLS
                    My problem s the same as yours.  
                          (looking to the group)
                    The same as all of ours.  The more 
                    of us who look for water, the more 
                    likely we are to find it. 

      He starts to walk off, but Bellamy snatches his walking 
      stick.  Gritting his teeth against the pain, he keeps going.                                                                                      34


      The effort draws a few more people to his side.  

      ON BELLAMY -- Watching Wells go as the Johns return...

                                  JOHN #1
                    You re not really a member of the 
                    Guard, are you?

                                    BELLAMY
                    No.  But the real Guard will be 
                    here soon... unless we stop it.

      It gets their attention.

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    You don t actually believe they re 
                    gonna forgive your crimes?

      They did believe it.

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    Even if they do.  Then what?  Guys 
                    like you, you gonna be model 
                    citizens now?  Get jobs?  If you re 
                    lucky, maybe pick up their trash. 

                                  JOHN #2
                    You got a point?

                                    BELLAMY
                    No... I got a question.  They 
                    locked you up.  Dumped you down 
                    here like lab rats to die.  So why 
                    are you helping them? 

                                  JOHN #1
                    The hell we are.

                                    BELLAMY
                    You re wearing those bracelets, 
                    aren t you?  Right now, those 
                    things are telling them whether or 
                    not it s safe to follow us down.

                                  JOHN #2
                    You said we could stop it.  How? 

      Bellamy pauses, realizes he s not recruiting rocket 
      scientists here, manages a smile...

                                    BELLAMY
                    Take  em off.  The Ark will think 
                    you re dead.  That it s not safe to 
                    follow... You follow?                                                                                        35


      It takes a moment, but they nod.

                                  JOHN #1
                    And if we do?  What s in it for us?

                                    BELLAMY
                    Someone s gotta help me run things.

      Two Johns.  Two smiles.



      ON FINN -- at the back of the pack now.  Daylight is fading.  

      Octavia has the lead, the sway of her body keeping Jasper and 
      Monty s minds off hunger, thirst, and exhaustion.  Finn, the 
      one person she wants to notice, doesn t...

                                  FINN
                    You know what I d like to know?  
                    Why send us down today, after 
                      ninety-seven years?  What changed?

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Who cares?  I m just glad they did.  
                    I woke up rotting in a cell.  Now 
                    I m spinning in a forest.

      She spins around a tree.  Jasper beams, but her eyes are on 
      Finn, who, beginning to piss her off, still doesn t notice.

                                  MONTY
                    Maybe they found something on a 
                      satellite.  You know, like an old 
                    weather satellite or --                                                                                      39


                                  CLARKE
                    It wasn t a satellite.

      The way she said it gets attention.  She keeps her secret for 
      another moment, then...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    The Ark is dying.  

      Although it lands hard, no one grasps the magnitude yet.  
      Because Clarke keeps walking, they all do.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    At the current population level 
                    there s roughly three months left 
                    of life support, maybe four now 
                    that we re gone.

                                  FINN
                    That s the secret they locked you 
                    up to keep?  Why they kept you in 
                    solitary?  Floated your old man?

      Emotion threatens, but she keeps it down, nods...

                                  CLARKE
                    My father was the engineer who 
                      discovered the flaw.  He thought 
                    the people deserved to know.  The 
                    council disagreed... My mother 
                      disagreed.  They were worried it 
                    would cause a panic.  My dad and I 
                    decided to go public anyway.  

                                  JASPER
                    They found out before you could?

      Another nod.  Back in control...

                                  CLARKE
                    Anyway, that s why today.  That s 
                    why it was worth the risk.  Even if 
                    we all die, at least they bought 
                      themselves more time.  

                                  MONTY
                          (as it hits him)
                    They re gonna kill more people, 
                    aren t they?  If Earth still isn t 
                    safe, they have to.

      Clarke nods soberly.  Finn, Jasper, and Monty are gutted by 
      what this means for their loved ones.  Octavia doesn t care.                                                                                      40


                                    OCTAVIA
                    Good.  After what they did to me,  
                    I say let  em all die.   

                                  JASPER
                    You don t mean that.

      Octavia doesn t respond, her eyes suddenly on something in 
      front of them.  The others don t notice yet.

                                  FINN
                    We have to warn them.  

      Clarke looks over, deeply affected by that.

                                  CLARKE
                    That s what my father said.

      The fact that he reminds her of her father, who she loved 
      more than anyone in the world, untethers her.  

      Because of that, she runs smack into Jasper, who has stopped 
      dead to watch OCTAVIA SUDDENLY PEEL OFF HER CLOTHES... 

                                  JASPER
                    Damn, I love Earth.

      ON OCTAVIA -- She knows they re watching.  Loves that 
      attention is back on her where it belongs.    

      The others are IN THE SHOT behind her.  Finn s expression is 
      more controlled than the other two boys, but only just.   

                                  CLARKE
                    Octavia, what the hell are you --

      That s when Octavia, down to just her underwear, takes a step 
      forward and SUDDENLY PLUNGES OUT OF VIEW.  

      A moment of confusion for the others ends with a SPLASH!  
      Fair to say it s the most amazing sound they ve ever heard. 

      Instantly, they rush forward, stopping on the rim of A NARROW 
      GORGE cut through the woods by A RIVER fifteen feet below.

      They get there in time to see Octavia rise up, enraptured as 
      she breaks the surface.  When you ve survived on drops of 
      water a day your entire life, swimming is transcendent.

                                  MONTY
                    Octavia, can you swim?!

                                    OCTAVIA
                    No... but I can stand.                                                                                      41


      With that, she rises like a sea goddess from the chest-high 
      water.  In seconds, the boys are stripping down to join her.  
      Only Clarke hesitates.  

                                  FINN
                    Clarke, take your damn clothes off.

      She ignores him, moving to the edge, pulling out the map...

                                  CLARKE 
                    There s no river on the map.   
                    We re going the wrong way.

      Finn steps up behind her, pointing across the river...

                                  FINN
                    No, we re not.

      We see it as Clarke does:  A man-made structure, the wreckage 
      of one anyway, above the trees on the horizon.  Still too far 
      away to be sure, but possibly an old guard tower.  

                                  CLARKE
                    ... Mount Weather.

      She spins excitedly, her smile melting at the sight of Finn s 
      rather amazing physique.  She peels off her shirt, too.  

      At that moment, Jasper, about to jump, suddenly freezes,  
      gripped by fear...

                                  JASPER
                    ... Octavia, get outta the water!!

      All eyes shoot to the river where A LONG DARK SHADOW is 
      rocketing toward Octavia.  

      We won t get a good look here.  Could be a croc.  Or a giant 
      snake.  Of course, it s possible that a hundred years 
      marinating in radiation has created something else entirely.

      Whatever it is, it s fast, it s aggressive, and it s hungry.

      Before Octavia can react, the creature strikes, violently 
      taking her under and dragging her away.



                                        END ACT THREE                                                                                      42


                                          ACT FOUR



      Just where we left them.  

      The UNSEEN beast drags Octavia away.  Fighting wildly, she 
      breaks the surface SCREAMING, before being sucked back down.

      Clarke, Finn, Monty, and Jasper race along the river s edge, 
      15 feet above, desperate to keep her in sight.  

                                  MONTY
                    ... What the hell is it?!

      Before anyone can venture a guess, Finn makes a decision.  
      He s going in after her.  Clarke grabs his arm...

                                  CLARKE
                    Finn, no!  What are you gonna do?!

                                  FINN
                    Try not to get eaten.

      With that, he jumps.  The moment he SPLASHES down, the shadow 
      releases Octavia and whips around to check out the threat.

                                  JASPER
                    Octavia, now!!  Get to the edge!!

                                  CLARKE
                    Finn, it s coming!  Get out!!

      Finn hears this and rushes back through the water, pulling 
      himself up onto A LOWER BANK just in time.

      The shadow darts instantly back to its meal, carrying Octavia 
      away even faster now.  In seconds, she ll be gone.

      UP ABOVE, Clarke has an idea.  She drops down behind a  
      boulder poised at the edge of the cliff and starts to push.  
      The boys don t understand, but drop down to help anyway.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    It thought Finn was a threat!  
                    It ll let her go again!

      The boulder rolls.  Clarke and Monty watch it go.  Not 
      Jasper.  He s already moving again, racing along the edge.

      The boulder SPLASHES down.  Sure enough, as Clarke predicted, 
      the shadow whips around again.  As it does, Jasper launches 
      himself, plunging in right beside Octavia, pulling her back.                                                                                        43


      Here comes the still-unseen beast.  It ll be close.

      Jasper shoves Octavia onto the lower bank, scrambling out 
      beside her just as the malevolent shadow rockets past.  

      Octavia collapses into Jasper s very thin arms.  Although the 
      fact that he s holding a nearly naked girl does register, we 
      see it more so on the face of his friend up above.  

                                  MONTY
                    Note to self: next time,        
                    save the girl.

      Clarke looks back to Finn, who is equally impressed...

                                  FINN
                    One good thing about outer space... 
                    no giant, mutant river snakes.

      Everyone LAUGHS.  Even Octavia, though just barely.  Then she 
      sees the TEETH MARKS RUNNING RED on her thigh and goes still.  

      UP ABOVE, Clarke sees it, too, looks to Monty...

                                  CLARKE
                    Help Jasper get her up here.  

      Her eyes go across the river.  THE WRECKAGE OF THE TOWER is 
      now a silhouette amid the trees against the setting sun.  

      It kills her to stop with the goal in sight, but the light is 
      nearly gone, one of her people is wounded, and a man-eating 
      snake is blocking their path.  She SIGHS heavily, then...  

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    We ll cross at first light.



      Wells limps from the ship into the full light of a bonfire.                                                                                      44


      The scene playing out around it is almost tribal, fire and 
      MUSIC temporarily pushing hunger and thirst out of mind.

      It draws Wells in, too, but just as he s about to give in to 
      the primal forces, he sees what s taking place at the center:

      Bellamy supervises as the two Johns, wristbands already gone, 
      help a rough-looking GIRL take off hers.

      For the record, the process is painful:  A rod is jammed in, 
      then violently pried up, cracking the band, which is then 
      ripped off.  Let s just say it leaves a mark.

      The band gets tossed into the fire beside TEN OTHERS, then... 

                                    BELLAMY
                    Who s next?! 

                                  WELLS
                    What the hell are you doing?!

      Bellamy turns.  The two Johns converge, but Bellamy holds out 
      a hand, stopping them as a HUSH falls over the crowd.

                                    BELLAMY
                      Liberating ourselves, what s it  
                    look like?

                                  WELLS
                    It looks like you re trying to get 
                    us all killed.
                          (then; to the group)
                    Our communication system is fried.  
                    These wristbands are all we ve got.   
                    Take them off and the Ark will 
                    think we re dying.  That it s not 
                    safe for them to follow.

                                    BELLAMY
                    That s the point, Chancellor.     
                    We can take care of ourselves.  
                          (then; to the crowd)
                    Can t we?

      It draws CHEERS.  Bellamy clearly gets off on the feeling   
      of power.

                                  WELLS
                    You think this is a game?!

      It quiets again.  Wells looks to the crowd, jabbing a finger 
      skyward to indicate the Ark...                                                                                      45


                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    Those aren t just our parents and 
                    our friends.  They re our farmers.  
                    Our doctors.  Our engineers.  I 
                    don t care what he tells you, we 
                    won t survive here on our own.  
                          (looking back to Bellamy)
                    Besides, if it really is safe, how 
                    could you not want the rest of our 
                    people to come down?

                                    BELLAMY
                    My people already are down.  
                          (pointing at the sky)
                    Those people locked my people up.  
                    Those people killed my mother for 
                    the crime of having a second child.  
                    Your father did that. 

                                  WELLS
                    My father didn t write the laws.

                                    BELLAMY
                    No, he enforced them.  But not 
                    anymore.  Not here.  Here, there 
                    are no laws.  Here, we do whatever- 
                    the-hell we want, whenever-the-hell 
                    we want.  

      The crowd is poised to erupt.  Bellamy feels it.  Loves it.  

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    You don t have to like it, Wells.  
                    You can even try to stop it, change 
                    it, kill me.  You know why?  
                      Whatever-the-hell we want.

      John #1 suddenly pumps his fist in the air... 

                                  JOHN #1
                      Whatever-the-hell we want!

      John #2 picks up the CHANT.  Then TWO MORE.  In seconds, 
         WHATEVER-THE-HELL WE WANT  is booming through the trees.

                                  THE GROUP
                      Whatever-the-hell we want!
                      Whatever-the-hell we want!

      The intensity of it disturbs Wells.  Even some of those who 
      had been helping him earlier are getting swept up in it.    
      He wants to stop them, but knows that he s powerless to.  

      Then something happens that stops it for him:  IT RAINS.                                                                                       46


      Gently, at first, but hard enough to freeze everyone.      
      All eyes go to the sky.  All faces fill with awe.  

      Then the sky opens and it starts to pour, igniting a 
      rapturous frenzy on the forest floor.

      Arms flung wide.  Mouths open.  Drinking.  Bathing.

      At the center of it all stand Wells and Bellamy.  Eyes meet.   
      Bellamy shrugs as if to say  looks like we ve got water. 

                                  WELLS
                    We need to collect this!

                                    BELLAMY
                      Whatever-the-hell you want.

      We stay here as Wells rushes away, no longer feeling pain, 
      gathering A SMALL, BUT NOT INSIGNIFICANT GROUP to help him. 

      As Bellamy watches him go, the thinking behind his eyes is 
      clear: Wells is gonna be a problem.



      CLOSE ON CLARKE, asleep on the ground near the others     
      when her eyes suddenly snap open and fill with wonder.

      As she slowly sits up, WE WIDEN TO REVEAL HER SURROUNDINGS:

      Incredibly, the trees and flowers and ground are streaked 
      with iridescent light.  Veins of luminescence.  Multiple 
      colors.  The effect is surreal and spectacular.

      A forest that glows in the dark. 

      Appropriately agog, Clarke stands and moves amid the trees.   
      The sound of the RUNNING RIVER adds to the splendor.  

      Finally, her guard is down and we see the wide-eyed, 
        inquisitive, passionate girl beneath the emotional armor.  

      For the first time, she lets herself feel the wonder of being 
      on Earth.  Only it s unlike the Earth she spent so much time 
      dreaming about.  Indeed, it s practically another planet.

      Her eyes wander to the stars, her mind to the Ark (or heaven) 
      and her mother (or father), when she hears a low voice:  

                                  FINN (O.S.)
                    Pretty cool, huh?

      Startled, she whirls, reverie replaced by embarrassment as 
      she sees him returning through the psychedelic trees.  

      Takes her a moment to react to the fact that he s carrying a 
      cone fastened out of large leaves and filled with water.

                                  CLARKE
                    You went to the river?

                                  FINN
                    Figured it was worth losing a 
                    finger or two.  Here.                                                                                      50


      He moves the cone to her lips.  She takes a tentative sip.

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    You call that a sip?  

      She smiles.  Old habits.  She drinks again, deeply this time, 
      letting it run down her face and neck.  

      When she s done, she has to look away, vibrating from all of 
      it, forcing herself to refocus on the glowing trees... 

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    You think it means we re all gonna 
                    grow two heads?

      Clarke LAUGHS slightly.  

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    What do you know?  She can laugh.

      She gives him a look, then picks a neon leaf.  Incredibly, it 
      dims as if being unplugged.  

                                  CLARKE
                    Oh, now that s cool.

      There s that bright-eyed girl again.  Finn clearly likes this 
      side of her.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    I ll have to run some tests, but, 
                    right now, my operating theory is 
                    that bioluminescence is an 
                      adaptation.  Sort of a twist on 
                      photosynthesis.  That s --

                                  FINN
                    Plants using sunlight to turn bad 
                    air into good air.

      She s impressed.  He shrugs...

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    Woke up that day in science class.
                    Come here.  You have to see this.

      With that, he strides back through the trees.  She follows, 
      trying to shake her hormonal response to this guy.

      He stops in a particularly surreal spot, squatting to point 
      out something on the ground.  WE SEE THEM AS SHE DOES:

      Strange tracks in the dirt.  Hard to tell, but they could be 
      simian.  A widely separated big toe is clear in some of them.                                                                                       51


      She kneels, curious.  He points...

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    That s a toe.  Plus, near as I can 
                    tell, whatever it is, it s walking 
                    on two feet.  My guess... monkeys.

      Clarke LAUGHS at him.  He gives her a look.

                                  CLARKE
                    Sorry.  It s just... According to 
                      everything I ve read, there were no 
                    bipedal animals anywhere near here, 
                    certainly not monkeys.

                                  FINN
                    Really?  You read anything about 
                      glow-in-the-dark forests or man-
                    eating snakes?

      She meets his stare, sees his point: anything is possible. 

      We sense that a kiss is imminent, or at least if he tried, 
      that she d let him.  He doesn t try.  

      Instead, he reaches back down, fitting his hand into one of 
      the tracks.  He does this to prove his point, but all Clarke 
      sees are the FRESH HACK MARKS on his wristband.

                                  CLARKE
                    Were you trying to take that     
                    off again?

                                  FINN
                    What?  No... I was thinking about 
                    the Ark.  There may be a way to 
                    turn one of these things into a  
                    two-way communication device. 

      She looks at him, once again reminded of her father.

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                     Course, I ll have to run some 
                    tests, but --

      She SMACKS him playfully, LAUGHING again beneath the   
      magical trees.  New world.  New possibilities.



      The group is asleep on the ground all around the smoldering 
      campfire.  The trees here do not glow.  



      Wells walks ahead of Bellamy through the trees.  Far enough 
      now from the dropship that it s no longer in sight.  The gun 
      in Bellamy s hand is not aimed, but Wells senses it just the 
      same.  He rarely turns.  Just keeps walking.

                                    BELLAMY
                    You re a smart kid, Wells.  I see 
                    what you re doing.  The way you 
                    gathered the wood.  Collected the 
                    rain.  You re a natural leader.  
                    Probably made your old man proud.  

      The past tense of that gives Wells pause.  He naturally 
      assumes it means he s about to become past tense.

                                  WELLS
                    Is that why you brought me out 
                    here?  Eliminate your competition?

      Bellamy just keeps walking.  The silence unnerves Wells...

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                     Cause I m not your competition.  
                    Clarke.  She s the one they ll 
                    follow, not me.  Certainly not you.

                                    BELLAMY
                    That s far enough.  

      They stop near two freshly filled graves.  Clearly, the boys 
      who died on the dropship were buried here.  Wells swallows 
      his fear of being the third, then turns to face Bellamy.     

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    I guess we got more in common than 
                    meets the eye, huh?  We both came 
                    down here to protect someone we 
                    love... and neither one of them 
                      appreciates it.  

      Bellamy LAUGHS.  Wells can t find the humor in it.  Could be 
      the gun.  Bellamy tracks his eyes to it, calmly holds it up.

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    I don t wanna shoot you, Wells.  
                    Hell, I like you.  
                          (pointing to the sky)
                    But I do need them to think   
                    you re dead.                                                                                       54


                                  WELLS
                    Why?  Why are you doing this?  For 
                    real.  Not some crap about getting 
                    to do what you want to do. 

                                    BELLAMY
                          (after a beat)
                    I have my reasons.  I also have the 
                    gun.  Which means I ask the 
                      questions, and the question is... 
                    why aren t you helping me?      
                    Your father banished you, Wells.      
                    Yet here you are still doing his 
                    bidding.  Following the rules.  
                    Aren t you tired of always doing 
                    what s expected of you?  Stand up 
                    to him.  Take off your wristband.  
                    You ll be amazed how good it feels.  

      Wells stares.  Bellamy thinks he s considering it.  He s not.

                                  WELLS
                    No.  Never.  Not gonna happen.    
                    Is that clear enough for you?

      Bellamy smiles slightly.  The kid s got balls.    

                                    BELLAMY
                    Yes, it is.  I m sorry it had to be 
                    this way.

      With that, he does something unexpected: tucks the gun away 
      behind his back.  

      Before Wells can make sense of it, BOYS APPEAR FROM BEHIND 
      TREES ON ALL FOUR SIDES, the two Johns at Wells  back.  

      Wells knows they mean to take off his wristband.  He tries to 
      make a run for it, but the Johns catch him.  He struggles 
      wildly, but the other two boys jump on and overpower him.

      Bellamy stands apart from the violence, somewhat concerned by 
      the intensity of what he s unleashed.  Not concerned enough 
      to stop it.

      The last thing we see is John #2 moving the rod to Wells  
      wristband and jamming it in as Wells GROWLS in pain and rage.



      PUSHING IN ON A HANGAR BAY DOOR, a Chinese flag barely 
      visible beneath the grime.                                                                                        55



      Clarke stands with Octavia and Monty on the lip of the gorge.  
      Finn and Jasper are above them in the branches of a tree.

      We see at once that they have gathered several of the vines 
      that are everywhere weeping toward the water and have woven 
      them together to form a rope.  

      At the moment, Finn is testing its strength.  It passes.    
      He looks to Jasper...

                                  FINN
                    You re an evil genius, you      
                    know that?

                                  CLARKE
                    You wanted to go first.  Now stop 
                    stalling.                                                                                      59


                                  JASPER
                    Just hold on until the apogee and 
                    you ll be fine.

                                  FINN
                    Apogee?  You mean the Indians?

                                  JASPER
                    Apogee not Apache.  

                                  CLARKE
                    He knows.  Today, Finn.

                                  FINN
                    Aye aye, Captain.
                          (then; to Jasper)
                    See yah on the other side.

      With that, he launches, swinging down, then out over the 
      river, letting go at the apogee, flying untethered the last 
      twenty feet, before sticking the landing on the far bank.

      For a moment, no one moves, then Finn spins to face them, 
      thrusting his hands in the air like a conquering warrior...

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    WE... ARE... APOGEE!!

      As the others release their amazement in a collective joyous 
      WHOOP, we begin the subtle use of an UNKNOWN POV.  Could be 
      someone or something is watching them.  Maybe not.

      In A SERIES OF SHOTS, we ll now track the others as they make 
      the same jump.  Next up is Clarke.  

      Her flight is good and her landing is solid, but the ground 
      beneath her crumbles, threatening to pull her into the water.

      Finn pulls her back just in time.  Holds on a moment longer 
      than necessary.  She doesn t mind.

      Octavia SCREAMS like a child on a roller-coaster, offering a 
      special  fuck you  glance down to the river below, before 
      landing gingerly on her bandaged leg.  

      Although she doesn t need it, Jasper s there to catch her, 
      prompting huge smiles from all.  

      Within minutes, all are standing on the far bank, a clear 
      sense of pride on each of their faces.  

      Clearly, the journey has changed them, bonded them.  They are 
      no longer prisoners.  No longer separated by which station 
      they come from.  They are friends.  More.  A team.                                                                                       60


                                  CLARKE
                    Let s go find those supplies.

      As they turn for the ruins of Mount Weather, Octavia is the 
      first to notice that there s something hanging from the trees 
      all around them.  She reaches up and pulls down an apple.  

      The realization that they re standing in an overgrown orchard 
      fills them each with wonder.

      Octavia takes the first bite of fruit in a hundred years.  
      The sweetness of it overwhelms her.   

      Needing to share the experience, she looks to the others.  

      The fact that she offers it to Jasper over Finn surprises her  
      as much as Jasper.  Eating from her hand, he bites into it 
      with abandon, nothing tentative for this kid.  Not anymore.  

                                  JASPER
                    You guys gotta try this.

      The pure joy in his face prompts the others to reach for 
      apples, too, when something happens that changes everything:

      A SPEAR EXPLODES INTO JASPER S CHEST, killing him instantly, 
      pinning him to the tree at his back, leaving him upright.

      So sudden that, for a moment, it s as if none of the others 
      understands what they re looking at.  

      Then Octavia starts to SCREAM.

      Wide, terror-filled eyes shoot back across the river as they 
      take cover behind an outcropping of rocks.  No one is there.  

      But someone was.  Someone who didn t come down on a dropship.  
      Someone who grew up here, learned to throw a spear, to kill.  

      Finally, the words drip like poison from Clarke s lips...  

                                  CLARKE
                    ... We re not alone.

      BLACKNESS.



                                            THE END