
A Ramapo Indian girl (mix of African American, Dutch and 
Lenape Indian) flapping shawl wings -- writing in the air 
 no sound, and then the pulse of drums with smoke -- there s
fade up, a small crowd clapping --

A face in the crowd -- PHILIP KOPUS (40) -- cropped hair, 
mocha skin -- his sparkly blue eyes scanning faces -- looking 
 at a POW WOW for the local RAMAPO INDIAN for someone.  He s
TRIBE, of which you could say he s a member.  

 Kopus notices people noticing him -- he smiles.  They don t
smile back.  He starts walking -- his ex-con body all springs 
 a wholesome atmosphere to the event, and levers.  There s
wheelchairs and strollers; feels like a family picnic.    

 soon meet) Kopus notices a COP across the way (who we ll
handing out photos, looks to recognize him -- keeps moving --

 POV as he moves to the outskirts of the gathering, Kopus s
the sound of drums fading...swallowed by an ominous quiet as 
he walks up on the woods, the colored leaves like a wall of 
fire...



We follow three running Ramapo boys who have strayed from the 
Pow Wow.  PAUL (11), leads the way, wears a taped up pair of 
glasses and a NY Jets windbreaker that s way to big for him.  

Paul spots a grown over wood fence -- thinks fast -- grabs a 
2x4 with some bent rusty nails spiking the end.    

Rocks start flying from out of the woods, thudding all 
around.  Paul and his two friends take cover, giggling -- 

Paul looks down at his sneakers, planted in bright blue paint 
sludge.  Spongy, cake-like, dumped here before he was born.  
He puts his finger in it -- starts to smear blue lines on his 
face -- shows the other two.  War paint.  They follow suit, 
striping their faces when -- 

Three more boys burst from the woods -- the rock throwers -- 
laughing madly.  Paul stands up to meet them, swinging the 
spiked 2x4 -- whoosh -- whoosh --

 weapon --The three boys are stopped, scared by Paul s2.


PAUL
You surrender?  

The boys step back, laughing nervously, one of them poised to 
throw another rock when he sees something.  His demeanor goes 
serious -- he drops the rock.

BOY 
 coming.Somebody s

All of the boys turn to look as Kopus walks out of a jumble 
of yellow leaves -- greets them with a salute and a wink....  
The other two rock throwers drop their rocks.  Paul keeps 
hold of his spiked 2x4....  

Kopus walks to Paul...takes the weapon away from him... 
noticing the war paint --

KOPUS
You playing war?  Cowboys and 
Indians?
(motions to Paul and co.)
 pretending to be the You re
Indians, huh.

PAUL
 pretending.  I am an Indian.Ain t

KOPUS
My mom told me that too, but that s 
what old people around here say to 
make themselves feel important.  
You come from slaves and whores 
same as me.  

Paul shakes his head defiantly --

KOPUS (CONT D)
They was hiding up in these 
mountains after the Revolutionary 
War -- making babies together.  
 what you come from.  That s
Fugitives.  

t waver, but the others seem  expression doesn Paul s
 aura than his words.confused, bothered -- more by Kopus 

KOPUS (CONT D)
Nothing to get down about.  What do 
you want to be from Indians for?  
 good coming from rejects -- It s
nobody expects nothing from you.  
 how you win.  So wipe that That s
stupid paint off your face.3.


Paul s two cohorts wipe their paint off real quick -- but not 
Paul, he just stares back at Kopus through his crooked paint 
smudged glasses.  

 fuck with me look -- but Paul Kopus shoots Paul a don t
 flinch -- the kid is hard.  Kopus looks at the two doesn t
who wiped the paint off their face --

KOPUS (CONT D)
You do everything people tell you 
to do?    

Kopus gives Paul his signature wink, then starts off walking 
into the woods.  Paul and the others watch him carrying that 
spiked 2x4 over his shoulder like some mad Paul Bunyan.



A police truck parked in front of a house in the wooded 
mountains.  A police officer for the Suffern PD (the cop 
Kopus recognized at the Pow Wow) HAROLD JENSEN -- stands at 
the front door talking to an OLD RAMAPO WOMAN.

 got a small Harold hands her a little photograph -- he s
stack of them.  Harold s a former high school football star, 
still pretty imposing in his middle age.    

HAROLD
--he was last seen over on Deer 
Hill Road -- NYU student --

The old woman looks at the photo, three small children moving 
around behind her trying to get a look at it.  The photo is 
of a doughy looking premed student named DENIS BRADLEY. 

The Old Woman gives Harold a cold stare while she tears the 
photo into pieces -- handing the scraps out to the children --

OLD WOMAN
I called the police last year about 
a break-in.  Took two days for them 
to send somebody.  But some rich 
boy gets lost in the woods, you all 
 waste a damn second.don t

Harold gives her a polite nod -- turns and starts back for 
his truck -- eyeing the motley assortment of lawn ornaments 
peeking out through the tall grass -- 

HAROLD
Have a nice evening.  

Harold heads for his police truck, hears her slam the door -- 4.



Kopus pulls up in front of a big old house -- the lone 
structure on this dirt mountain road.  

He gets out, reaches into his truck s flatbed and grabs that 
spiked 2x4 he took from Paul.  He walks up on the house with 
it, glances at -- 

A big plastic bear standing sentry in front -- stolen from 
the roof of a muffler shop -- riddled with bullet holes.  
Kopus gives it a nod...  



 Harold is in A group of five Ramapo teens sitting on ATV s,
his truck, pulled up beside them --  

HAROLD
Helmets guys -- come on.  Next time 
 gonna be a ticket.it s

They nod along.  He hands one of them the photo -- 

HAROLD (CONT D)
Seen him around?

They pass the photo around, shaking their heads -- hand it 
back --

RAMAPO TEEN
Nope.



Kopus steps inside, gripping the spiked 2x4...the walls have 
been knocked down; the ground floor is just one big room -- 

Kopus spots four people in sleeping bags by the flickering 
TV, their snoring intermingling with Sponge Bob sounds -- 
Kopus walks to them, his boots crunching on grit and glass -- 



We hear yelling and screaming coming from inside the house.  
 -- come running beat-The four sleepers -- RAMAPO MEN (20 s)
up and bloody out the front door.5.



Harold, looking beat, pitch black out now -- he knocks on 
 door.Mike s

He peers around as he waits for someone to answer...clocks 
 truck...  He looks up at the the bullet ridden bear, Kopus 
darkened windows... 

Harold shakes his head, slides the photo of Denis Bradley 
under the door.  His phone rings, jolts him -- he picks up -- 8.



 mud A quiet street in the village of Suffern, NY.  Harold s
 SUV.  Nice splattered police truck pulls in next to Jean s
suburban neighborhood, green lawns, shiny cars...the Ramapo 
mountains visible in the moonlit distance...



Harold s house, as his two daughters come out the front door  
-- RACHEL (17) and KATE (15).  Rachel wears a sweatshirt 
 written on with black marker -- her hair is still wet she s
from the shower, while Kate looks like something out of a JC 
Penny ad.  Jean calls after them from inside the house: 

JEAN JENSEN (O.S.)
Go wait in the car!  Go!  Now!

Kate gets in the passenger seat of the SUV, Rachel gets in 
 so worked up -- she the back, practically shaking, she s
slams the door -- 



Rachel closes her door on Harold.  He watches Jean back out 
 still holding the condom in of the driveway.  Realizes he s
his hand...breathes out --  



A squat old house on an unpaved cul-de-sac.  A teenage Ramapo 
boy works on a mud splattered ATV sitting in the gravel 
driveway beside a beat-up compact.  The boy goes by JUNIOR 
(17) stringy muscles, clothes a mix of emo and backwoods, a 
scar cuts a line on his left eyebrow...  

Junior alternates between working on the ATV and sending 
texts with grease stained fingers, smiling to himself...

The door to the house opens with a squeal, Marie emerges 
lugging a beat-up leather satchel with a peace sign on it, 
it s overstuffed with legal papers. 

MARIE
 not on vacation you know -- You re
this is supposed to be a 
punishment.  

 about to hug Junior makes a goofy face -- acts as if he s
Marie with his grease stained hands --  

MARIE (CONT D)
 you even --  Don t

Junior laughs -- turns back to his work...

JUNIOR
 get suspended.Guy I fought didn t

MARIE
And you know why.  
(beat)
You really like this girl?

Junior looks her in the eye and gives a definitive nod, his 
face serious as can be...  Marie breathes out, shakes her 
head -- hears an engine coming.  She turns to see a pick-up 
truck making its way down the rutted cul-de-sac...

MARIE (CONT D)
Who s this?

 Kopus, all The truck stops...the driver gets out.  It s
smiles as he takes in the sight of Marie...  Her face drops -- 
she knows him and from the looks of it, knows him well.  12.


 just a stranger.  Kopus walks up to Marie, To Junior he s
stops about a foot away --

MARIE (CONT D)
 seen you Your Uncle Mac said he d
 believe at the Pow Wow -- didn t
him.

KOPUS
Alright I hug you?

 answer at first, Junior looking at her She doesn t
questioningly.  Finally she nods, Kopus moves in, gives her a 
hug.  She stays rigid, then after a moment gently pulls away.

MARIE
(to Kopus)
This is Junior.
(to Junior)
This is Phillip Kopus.  He s one of 
my boys.

Kopus gives Junior a once over, then offers his hand -- the 
hand of a hard life; scarred and strong, one of his 
fingernails smashed black.  Junior wipes the grease on his 
jeans and shakes --

KOPUS
m her  not one of her boys -- I I m
son.  Only son.    

Junior looks at Marie for confirmation.  She nods vaguely, 
all this anxiety fighting behind her eyes.

MARIE
What you been doing all this time?

KOPUS
Nothing much, seeing the world, 
kicking around.

MARIE
You can t stay here.

KOPUS
I m not looking to.  Sure it s 
filled to capacity -- 

MARIE
Just me and Junior right now. 

Kopus looks off at the house, surveying the area, re-
connecting memories...13.


KOPUS
(to Junior)
Used to live in this house.  

Junior nods, seems a little infatuated with this larger than 
life man who displays an almost hypnotic confidence.  

MARIE
Well, I got to get going. 

Kopus gives Marie a nod.  She walks to her car, gets inside --



Lots of cars parked on the side of the road -- A SMALL SEARCH 
PARTY OF COPS AND VOLUNTEERS are getting ready to move into 
the woods.  Harold stands by talking to CAPTAIN WARREN 
 a grey haired mass of hypertension with an oddly (50 s),
 a hung over mess -- sipping some hunched posture.  He s
alcoholic concoction from a Jersey Devils thermos.  There s a 
bit of father son feeling between them...     

CAPTAIN WARREN
 only Ramapos are complaining we re
searching their property.  Why 
 you check out the woods by don t
Chestnut, Woodbridge -- any of the 
nice streets.

HAROLD
ll head  take me long.  I Shouldn t
back up after, do another sweep.

Captain Warren gives Harold a slap on the arm.  Harold starts 
for his truck --

CAPTAIN WARREN
You gonna watch the Giants get 
killed with me this weekend?

Harold nods -- gets in his truck -- 14.



Harold walks through the woods -- alongside fences that 
separate a row of fancy houses from the wild woods that 
border them.  A WEALTHY RETIREE spots Harold through the bars 
of his wrought iron fence -- shoots him a questioning look...

HAROLD
Kid might of gotten lost out here.15.


WEALTHY MAN
I heard.  I bet those Jackson 
Whites up on the mountain have seen 
him.  

Harold gives the guy a placating nod and keeps moving --



Suffern high school kids getting out for the day -- Rachel 
starts casually veering off the current, moving across the 
parking lot -- 

KATE
What are you doing?

Kate sees Junior riding up on his ATV -- she keeps after 
Rachel, the two of them moving against the flow of kids -- 

KATE (CONT D)
You re gonna get in trouble.  

RACHEL
OK, whatever.  Good-bye, Katie.

Junior pulls up on his ATV, Rachel hops on the back.  Kate 
shakes her head at Rachel, looking worried as they tear out 
of the parking lot -- 


END OF ACT ONE16.


ACT TWO




Rain pours down as Marie leads RYAN VERNON (40) to the front 
door of a paint peeling house.  Ryan s conservative looking, 
wears glasses -- regarding the weathered dime store statues 
set up on the lawn.  Marie knocks on the door while Ryan rubs 
the rain off his glasses...

 barely twenty, sweet A pregnant woman opens the door, she s
 PAIGE --disposition, her name s

MARIE
Hi, Paige.  This is Ryan -- 
gentleman from the EPA I told you 
about.   



The back door opens, Paige leads Marie and Ryan out to the 
backyard.  Paige registers their perplexed expressions -- we 
re seeing yet.   see what they don t

PAIGE
I told Billy you wanted to get 
pictures -- but he was worried 
about the baby, so...  

Angle widens to reveal the whole back yard is covered over in 
cinder blocks.  Ryan walks out on to them, squats down, lifts 
one of them up, revealing blue paint sludge underneath...   

PAIGE (CONT D)
 bad for the baby -- You think it s
even covered up like this?

Ryan looks at Marie, they exchange a look -- 



 truck pulls into the driveway.  He gets out, looks Harold s
beat from work...



Brooklyn, NY.  Kopus pulls up in his truck, a street of 
broken down brownstones.  He parks by the curb, gets out --22.



Harold moves through the woods, a ways ahead of a group of 
volunteer searchers.  He spots something up ahead -- one of 
the search dogs, laying on its side, licking its paws.  

Harold goes to the dog, notices its paws and snout are 
stained red...t   Harold squats down, checks him over...doesn 
see any cuts... 

Then Harold notices what his boots are planted in -- starts 
looking all around -- a little stunned...  He s standing on a 
mattress-size amalgamation of what almost looks like volcanic 
rock.  Red paint sludge...  

 snout -- stops it from licking any Harold grabs the dog s
more paint sludge off its paws...



Junior rides up on his ATV, Rachel on the back -- he stops 
with a show-offy skid.  He helps Rachel off the back as she 
looks out at something, a little disturbed...

s house, at Mike They re looming tall -- that bullet ridden 
bear staring.  Junior pulls her along to the door -- knocks.  
They wait there awkwardly...Junior lets out a nervous laugh -- 
looks at Rachel --

JUNIOR
Shit, why am I nervous right now?  
You re making us both nervous -- he 
told me to stop by --

The door opens, Junior and Rachel try to look tough.  Kopus 
squints back at them, bemused, fidgeting with his hands,  
saying nothing -- watching Junior squirm until --

JUNIOR (CONT D)
Know this is something to ask, but 
we need someplace to stay for a 
couple days.  27.


Kopus looks Rachel over for a moment...

KOPUS
Honey, you look all kinds of 
familiar to me -- who do you look 
like?

Rachel shrugs --

RACHEL
 look like anybody famous.  Don t

 quite Kopus seems stuck on something, a thought he can t
reconcile -- he looks off, looks back at Rachel...

KOPUS
Yeah, OK.  You can stay here.  
Upstairs is off limits though.  Me 
and my buddy are going on a hike.  
(beat)
You want to come along, Junior?  
Show your girlfriend some trails.  

Junior nods -- Rachel keeps a confident smile on -- trying to 
stay on top of this, keep her game up -- 

JUNIOR
You want to?  

RACHEL
Yeah -- stop trying to act like I m 
scared, trying to embarrass me in 
front of your uncle --

KOPUS
 his brother.  I m

Junior smiles at that.  Kopus ushers them inside and closes 
the door...   


END OF ACT TWO28.


ACT THREE



Insect sounds, Rachel and Junior follow Mike who s following 
Kopus -- Kopus is greeting the scenery with familiar nods and 
smiles.  Rachel s POV: looks down at her slipper shoes -- her 
feet are taking a beating -- 

RACHEL
 pretty here.It s

JUNIOR
 used to it.  I m

RACHEL
 cause you re not pretty  So it s
used to it?

He shrugs.  She looks at the trees as she walks, big claws of 
colored leaves, sun blasting through... 

RACHEL (CONT D)
(to Junior)
t  going?  Didn You know where we re
that guy get lost out here?



It looks like the entrance to some naturally occurring cave, 
a fissure in the green rock, a black entrance...  A bird sits 
atop, looks down as Kopus emerges from the brush and moves up 
on the cave, Mike, Junior and Rachel right behind him. 

Rachel looks around at remnants of old fires, old beer cans -- 
labels faded, decades of sun -- the entrance to the cave...

KOPUS
(to Rachel)
 scream -- roof might cave in.  Don t

A pang of fear in Rachel s eyes, she stops -- Junior flashes 
her a he s kidding look.  They watch Mike follow Kopus into 
the darkness.  Junior offers Rachel his hand -- she grabs his 
whole arm -- they move into the black...



Harold comes out the back door of the house.  He stands there 
for a moment watching...

 across the backyard s watching Jean, who s POV -- he Harold s
raking leaves.  She seems to be in deep concentration...

 seem to Harold starts walking towards her now.  She doesn t
hear him coming despite the crunchy leaf strewn lawn...

HAROLD
Jean.  

She turns to face him, holding the rake -- 

HAROLD (CONT D)
I went to your work...

She shakes her head, her expression off.  

JEAN JENSEN
I just needed to come home. 32.


HAROLD
Is it this thing with Rachel?

Jean drops the rake -- gives Harold an almost contemptible 
look -- her expression odd.  

JEAN JENSEN
s all  doing what I did -- it She s
the same.  I just want it to stop.  

Her face, crumbling, she starts sobbing, misery pulsing in 
her eyes. 

HAROLD
 figure out Jesus, Jean, I can t
 happening with you two.  what s

He goes to her, starts to put his arms around her -- she 
shrugs him off -- turns, walks to the house.  Harold watches 
her disappear through the back door.  He looks down at the 
 been gouging out the ground where she was raking, she s
grass, clawing it -- 

t answer  cell phone rings -- for a moment he doesn Harold s
it, looks out at those mountains in the distance...finally he 
picks up --

HAROLD (CONT D)
Yeah...
(listens...his face drops)
 be right there --I ll



Junior and Rachel, laughing, lying on their backs in the 
 truck as he speeds up a mountain road. flatbed of Kopus 
 passing the bottle of vodka back and forth, staring They re
up at the spindly branches blurring overhead.



Her SUV is running hard over holes and crumbled stretches of 
concrete -- nothing but forest all around --  



The lake as Kopus yells across its surface, echoing out --

KOPUS
I am the night tripper!

Angle widens, Rachel and Junior watching as Kopus and Mike 
head for the water -- talking out of their earshot --

MIKE
Been coming back every day since I 
put him in here -- make sure he 
s gone. wash up.  He don t

 answer, looking out at the hauntingly still Kopus doesn t
water...meditating on it.  He looks at Mike, gives him a 
strange smile, starts getting undressed.  

KOPUS
I see him you re in trouble.  

Mike breathes out and starts stripping down -- disturbed.  

Junior turns to Rachel.

JUNIOR
 going in there.  Cold out I ain t
here.  Not freezing my ass off.  

Rachel thinks for a moment, seems more amused the more she 
watches Kopus and Mike splashing around laughing.  She strips 
down to her underwear -- wades out -- takes a breath and 
dives under --  38.


Rachel s POV under the dark water...undulating shadows.  She 
bursts to the surface, laughing, shivering, sees Junior 
wading out to her.  She turns, spots Mike swimming underwater 
towards her...  He bursts up, lifts her by the waist -- 

MIKE
Gotcha --

 show any fear.  She keeps her game face on, doesn t

RACHEL
 great, put me down Yeah, that s
now, asshole.

 coughing water.  He dunks her, lifts her back up, she s
Junior moves in, angry --

JUNIOR
Put her down, NOW.

Kopus sort of hangs back, curiously watching this play out.
Mike drops Rachel, then pushes Junior.  Junior punches Mike 
in the side of the head -- they start going at it --

Mike manages to get the upper hand, holds Junior under the 
water, Rachel beating on him trying to get him to stop --

RACHEL
Stop!  Let him up!  Let him up!

Mike does no such thing, his muscles popping as he struggles 
to keep Junior under -- Rachel starts beating on Mike -- 

KOPUS
Alright, let him up.

Mike lets Junior up, then angrily shoves Rachel.  Junior is 
 what, gasping, coughing up looking around, not sure what s
water -- Rachel goes to him, helps him stand --

Rachel recoils as Kopus walks up on them -- she gets a good 
look at his torso for the first time, he s got a big old dog 
bite scar on his side, real ugly, reminiscent of a shark 
attack victim.  He catches her looking, smiles -- then gives 
Mike a hard smack across the face --

KOPUS (CONT D)
 sorry. He s

Mike is stunned, face smarting.  Kopus gives him a smile as 
he puts his arm around Junior -- starts laughing --39.



Moving through the murky water, away from the muffled sounds 
 bloated of Kopus laughing -- we come up on Denis Bradley s
corpse, his jeans stuffed with rocks, tied at the ankles -- 
his unweighted torso upright, arms waving above his head...



Jean walks from her still idling SUV gun in hand, stops, 
faces off with the house...  

She walks to the front door, starts beating on it with the 
gun handle --

JEAN JENSEN
Rachel!  Rachel, come out!  RACHEL!    



Harold jumps out of his truck -- 

HAROLD
 missing -- Jean, my gun s

 look at him, keeps spraying the grill down.  She doesn t
He rushes up, grabs her.

HAROLD (CONT D)
Jean!?  Did you hear me!?  My god 
 missing -- dam gun s

JEAN JENSEN
Get off me!  Don t!

She pulls away from him, drops the hose.  The two of them go 
silent for a moment...water gurgling over the driveway, the 
porch light barely illuminating them... 

JEAN JENSEN (CONT D)
An animal ran in front of me.  

Harold looks over at the bumper...

HAROLD
An animal?

A big ugly indention in the chrome, specks of red, his own 
shadowy reflection. 

HAROLD (CONT D)
What do you mean an animal?  

Harold touches the indention in the bumper -- his face, like 
he can almost feel this transference of energy coming off 
it...

JEAN JENSEN
My mother said he was going home, 
that Jesus was rocking him in his 
arms...43.


Harold stares at her, she s wearing this broken expression -- 

HAROLD
What are you talking about?

She looks down at the water pooling over the driveway...

JEAN JENSEN
 not coming back.Rachel s

HAROLD
Do you know where she is?  Jean?

JEAN JENSEN
(screaming)
 you do I told you -- why didn t
something!?  I told you and I told 
you!  

Harold grabs her, starts dragging her back to the house 
screaming --

JEAN JENSEN (CONT D)
You let her get away from us -- she 
could be dead!  She could be dead, 
Harold! 

Harold sees some neighbors taking notice, faces peeking 
between curtains -- he forces Jean through the front door --



Rachel and Junior walk up on Kopus and Mike who are standing 
 face lights on a bluff, looking out at something.  Rachel s
up.  You can see the Manhattan skyline beyond the mountains. 



Harold s truck pulls up, he gets out, rushes up to the ledge 
 long gone.where Rachel took the picture...  They re

Harold looks out at the faraway city...



Harold knocks on the door.  Marie opens up --

HAROLD
 house?Good evening, this Junior s

Marie regards him as if he were the devil himself --

MARIE
What do you want?

HAROLD
I need your help -- looking for my 
daughter.45.


MARIE
Your wife was here already, 
officer.  Acting crazy, making 
threats.  You people are always 
talking about how dangerous it is 
up here -- you re the damn psychos.

HAROLD
Is your son here?

Marie starts trying to close the door, Harold puts his foot 
in it --

HAROLD (CONT D)
 gonna talk to your son.I m

MARIE
 not here.  You need to go --He s

Marie starts trying to push Harold out of the doorway -- 
Harold grabs her, cuffs her and starts dragging her to his 
truck -- Paige and two other Ramapo women come running out of 
the house, screaming at him --

PAIGE
t do  do this!  She didn You can t
nothing!



s dropping Marie  truck is idling in the driveway, he Kopus 
and Junior off -- gets out of his truck and inspects the 
 car --damage to Marie s

KOPUS
She did a number on it...

Then he sees something on the ground.  His eyes light up...



 SUV, staring Harold sits on the driveway in front of Jean s
at that dented bumper, anxiety coursing through him...  

His phone rings -- almost gives him a heart attack.  
He doesn t recognize the number, picks up -- 

HAROLD
Hello?

KOPUS
This Harold Jensen?

HAROLD
Yeah.  Who s asking?

KOPUS
This is Phillip Kopus.  Not sure if 
you remember me, we went to high 
school --     

HAROLD
I remember you.  

Harold is seething... 

KOPUS
I know what happened tonight with 
Jean.  You know where the old goat 
farm is, right off the main road?  
Be there in an hour.48.


 believe this -- is Kopus hangs up.  Harold considers, can t
he fucking dreaming or is this really his life.  He goes to 
his truck, about to get in, instinctively fingering his 
holster -- empty -- he forgot about his missing sidearm...



 truck pulls up by the stone ruins of some old Harold s
structure...  He gets out, leaves the hunting rifle in the 
 a broken down wooden fence...looks a little truck.  There s
like the one in the little painting hanging in his room.  

Harold hears a motor -- looks over and sees a light -- Kopus 
riding up on an ATV... 

Kopus gets off, walks up on Harold, the two of them sizing 
each other up.  

KOPUS
Been a long time.  

HAROLD
Yeah.  

KOPUS
Somebody hit a kid with their car, 
just took off afterwards.  

Harold just stares...

KOPUS (CONT D)
Couple kids saw it happen -- said 
it was a white lady in an SUV. 
(beat)
Heard Jean was up here around the  
same time...  My mom said she 
seemed a little drunk. 

HAROLD
She was upset, looking for our 
daughter. 

KOPUS
You know I had a lot of respect for 
you back in high school.  Watched 
you play ball a couple times.  You 
were gonna go to Notre Dame, right? 49.


Harold struggles to control himself, rage bubbling up behind 
his eyes...

KOPUS (CONT D)
I know you know what happened with 
me and Jean back then.  I liked her  
brother -- knew him better than you 
did.  Messed me up when people 
tried to blame me for what 
happened.  Forced me out of my own 
state.  

HAROLD
 think anybody forced you.  Don t
But I guess running is the thing to 
 do when you reinnocent. 

Kopus almost starts to laugh --

KOPUS
 a Jackson White it is.     When you re

Harold just stares.

HAROLD
I get the feeling looking at you, 
that you done some time since you 
left here.  You re not talking to a 
guy you crossed paths with in high 
 an ex-con talking school.  You re
 not to a police officer.  And I m
really clear on why you called me 
 looking to out here?  Maybe you re
get sent back up?  

KOPUS
Listen, I know Jean --  

Harold shakes his head, almost laughs -- 

HAROLD
 --No, you don t

KOPUS
Know she would never hit a kid and 
then just leave him to die in the 
road.  Just saying -- believe it or 
not -- you got an ally in me.  And 
cause  gonna need one --  you re
people up here are pretty damn fed 
 gonna dump a hundred up -- they re
years of bad shit back on your 
wife, nail her to the cross.  
(MORE)50.

KOPUS (CONT'D)
I could make sure any witnesses 
give the right kind of statements 
in the morning -- make sure this 
 turn into something.doesn t

Harold looks a little dubious.  He gives Kopus a look, then 
heads back for his truck, opens the door --  

KOPUS (CONT D)
Oh, wait, almost forgot --

Harold turns around...  Kopus hands Harold his sidearm.

Harold takes it, dumbfounded.  

KOPUS (CONT D)
 gonna need that.  You re

Kopus gives him a little salute and a wink, starts walking 
back to his ATV...  

Harold watches him, his face quivering with rage as Kopus 
swings his leg over the ATV and kick starts the engine --

Harold pops the clip out of his gun, checks it, slams it back 
in -- racks the gun.  Holds it at his side, ready...

 stare for a moment... Kopus looks over, holds Harold s
 eyes, a strength that Something formidable in the deputy s
seems to catch Kopus just a little off guard...

After a moment Kopus hits the throttle, goes tearing off down 
some hidden trail... 

Harold stands there, still gripping his gun as the sound of 
the ATV s engine fades to quiet.  The rustling trees seem to 
whisper in the wind, while a thousand thoughts storm behind 
his weary eyes...

FADE TO BLACK.