
        Snow flurries... upon a forgotten section of East Boston. 
        CAMERA CREEPS... through a cold gray yard of a factory 
        built of brick and left for dead. CAMERA FLOATS... 
          PASSING a billboard indicating the factory is a  Boston 
          Renovation and Redevelopment Project. 

        CAMERA CONTINUES... toward the dilapidated structure and 
          FOLLOWING demolition CREWMAN stripping metals and 
          materials from the gutted interior.



        Snow silently flurries upon a parking lot dotted with 
          isolated cars. CAMERA CRANES DOWN as a lone figure, 
          MARLENE ANDERSON, 24, crosses toward a 2002 ToyotaEcho. 
        She is on her iPhone with a friend, NANCY YUAN.

                                          MARLENE
                      I just aced my medical assistant mid 
                      term... Are you even listening to me? 
                      What bar..? Nancy... it s so late... 
                      I m gonnapass... I have to be at work 
                    by nine...                                                                                    17


        CAMERA CONTINUES CRANING DOWN until the roof of a vehicle 
        ENTERS FRAME... REVEALING a man, an ominous male 
          silhouette sitting in the front seat, obscured by 
          interior fog and condensation... watches Marlene cross 
        the lot toward her car.

                                                                                CUT TO:



        Still talking to her friend on the iPhone, Marlene 
          reaches her Toyota. Cold, she climbs inside. As she tries 
          starting the car, Marlene is met only by the dull 
          SICKENING CLICK of a dead battery.

                                          MARLENE
                    My battery's dead. Please... I have to 
                      deal with this.... mybattery died!I m 
                      not lying to you! I m in a school 
                      parking lot and my battery s dead. I m 
                      calling triple A. Bye.

        She hangs up. Her windshield is frosted with condensation 
          causing it to appear opaque as Marlene gets out and walks 
        to the front. As she POPS the hood...

                                                                                CUT TO:



        CAMERA REMAINS IN MARLENE S CAR, looking through the 
          obscuring window as Marlene leans over under the hood and 
        over the engine and tugs some cables. 

        A male silhouetteappears beside her. This is ERIC KROGH.  
          Although Eric s sudden appearance startles Marlene, her 
          posture and attitude are quickly accepting of the man.

                                          MARLENE
                      Oh, thank you thank you for showing up! 
                      You saved my life. Where s your car?

        He gestures behind her. As she turns to look... Eric 
        whips the jumper cables around her neck. She drops her 
        phone. Clutchesat the cables. He stabs her in the neck 
        area with a syringe. Her body quickly turns limp.

        Eric drags Marlene toward the rear of her car. He opens 
        the trunk, and tosses her body inside. He SLAMS the lid.

        He returns toward the hood, tossing cables into the back 
        seat. Eric adjusts some engine wires then, SHUTS the 
        hood. He gets into the driver s seat and STARTS the 
          engine.

        The car pulls out and soon vanishes into the dark 
          streets, leaving a quiet, nearly empty lot. Soon, all 
          evidence of Marlene s car will be blanketed and gone by 
        the softly falling snow, eerie in the cones of light.

                                          END ACT ONE                                                                                    20


                                            ACT TWO



        An unmarked police vehicle drives through a forgotten 
            manufacturing district, appearing like an urban war zone.                                                                                    36



        CAMERA TRACKS across the urban apocalyptic landscape as 
          Catherine and Thomas ENTER FRAME. The area has clearly 
        become a dumping ground. Old sofas, shopping carts, 
          dumpsters and auto shells litter the terrain.

          Amongst all the discards and trash... hidden in the 
          yard... a blue 2003 Ford Focus, license plates removed... 
          Catherine checks the VINon the dash.

                                            CATHERINE
                      2003 blue Ford. LakashaWatkins  car.

        Thomas nods. Catherine unhooks a radio off her belt...

                                            CATHERINE (CONT D)
                      Molbeck, this is Jensen. Requesting 
                      backup unit at...



          Catherine and Thomas park the car out of sight, then 
          quietly close the doors. She takes the lead. Removing her 
        pistol from her holster, Catherine approaches the 
          building. O.S., inside the assembly plant... a CRASH!

          Catherine hustles to the building. Thomas follows, but 
          without tactical training is more hesitant. Aware of the 
        risk Thomas is taking, Catherine gauges his position and 
          attitude, gesturing for Thomas to get closer to the wall 
        before she searches for any available opening into the 
          building...

          Inside... MUTED AND LOW, but present, a WOMAN SCREAMS. 
          Catherine kicks and BURSTS OPEN the frail metal door!                                                                                    37



        Naked, Marlene runs through the freezing air amongst the 
        glass and garbage around the area. She ducks into and 
        crawls up in a large discarded sewer pipe.                                                                                    39



        CAMERA IS MOVING... as Thomas and Catherine exit the rear 
        of the hospital and walk out into the cold darkness. 

        CAMERA CONTINUES ARCING as they reach Thomas  car. CAMERA 
        ARCS REVEALING a MINUTEMAN security vehicle. Thomas  
        ENGINE STARTS... HEADLIGHTS PAN over the security car. 

        After a moment... Thomas  car drives past the Minuteman 
        car. And one moment after that, Eric sits up in the 
          driver s seat and starts the ignition.

        He throws the car into gear... then drives off into the 
          darkened streets... following Thomas  car.



        Thomas exits the building onto the sidewalk. As he hits 
        the cold night air, his habit is to pull his scarf across 
        his neck but he realizes he left it inside.

        Thomas stands on the sidewalk debating whether to return.



        Thomas walks down the street holding two grande 
          Starbucks. He opens the apartment building door...



        Boston PDpatrol cars THUNDER up to the college. A half 
        dozen officers hustle out of the vehicles...



        Thomas and Molbeck arrive outside a mid-twentieth century 
            institutional hospital, driving toward a complex of 
          structures lined off by a chain linked fence and NO 
          TRESPASSING signs.


