
  A set of SPEAKERS strategically positioned on the screened-in 
  porch begin to blare extremely loud JAZZ MUSIC.                                                                                19.





  We see a small TOOLSHED illuminated by moonlight in the 
  Gregors  back yard.

  Faint, hysterical SCREAMING can be heard coming from the 
  shed. A DOG in a nearby yard begins to bark.

  As we pull back further from the shed, Marshall s loud jazz 
  music drowns out the screaming.



  Tara heads toward her car, having completed Peg s 
    consultation. We see her using a small combination lock to 
  get into her purse. She uses this lock to ensure that that 
  none of the alters can get at her car keys or wallet. She 
  unlocks her car, gets in and starts the ignition. 



  Tara s car goes careening down the street at a decidedly non-
  suburban speed...



  The car squeals into the driveway. Tara gets out and swaggers 
  into the house. Her whole gait has changed. Her shoulders are 
  squared, her legs are bowed, and she puffs the cigarette 
    hands-free like a rock star.

  She slams the door behind her, disappearing into the house.



  Outside in the theater parking lot a ring of people has 
  gathered around BUCK and BENJAMIN. Buck is pounding the shit 
  out of Benjamin--not because he s stronger, but because 
  Benjamin is terrified to fight back. 

                              BUCK
                      (slugging wildly)
                If you ever touch Kate again, I m 
                gonna feed your manhood to a husky 
                dog and then throw the dog poop 
                into a volcano!

                              BENJAMIN
                      (shielding himself)
                Ow! Mrs. Gregor, stop! I can t hit 
                you!

                              BUCK
                What s this  Mrs. Gregor  bullshit? 
                I m Buck and I will fuck you 
                  sideways!                                                                                40.



  Benjamin hauls off and punches Buck in the face. The crowd 
  gasps. Buck tries wildly to fight back, but FISHMAN restrains 
  him. Buck is dazed and has a bloody nose.

                              FISHMAN
                Cool down, buddy.

  MAX, MARSHALL and KATE rush onto the scene.

                              MAX
                Buck, what are you doing? 

                              BUCK
                      (furious)
                Not only did this little wannabe-
                Jap pop Katie s cherry, he roughed 
                her up today!

                              MAX
                      (to Kate)
                Did he lay a hand on you? Tell me 
                the truth.

  Kate looks down and says nothing, but her eyes speak volumes. 

  Marshall rushes forward, screaming shrilly, and begins 
  kicking Benjamin. The crowd goes wild. For the first time, 
  Buck seems to gaze upon Marshall with admiration rather than 
  scorn. Even Max doesn t interfere. He reaches up and tries to 
  touch his wife s battered face, but Buck slaps his hand away.


