
      Music cue: Air s  La Femme D Argent. 

      ANGLE on a rain-streaked, neon-reflecting motel window. 
      Through gauzy curtains we see the SILHOUETTES OF LOVERS 
      heaving toward climax with all the romantic finesse normally 
      associated with Soviet farm equipment.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.)
                    I m never getting married.

      A middle-aged FAT MAN wearing a cheap, too-short, faux-
      Japanese robe and nothing else crosses through the frame 
      carrying an ICE BUCKET.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT'D)
                    You want an absolute? A sure thing? 
                    Well, there it is. Veronica Mars, 
                      spinster...old maid. Carve it in 
                    stone.

      CRANE SHOT follows man down a flight of exterior motel steps.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    I mean, come on. What s the point? 
                    Sure, there s that initial primal 
                      drive...hormonal surge...whatever 
                    you want to call it. Ride it out. 
                    Better yet, ignore it...

      As the man reaches the ground floor level and heads toward 
      the ICE MACHINE next to the motel office, shot widens and 
      includes the wet blacktop of the parking lot and the 
      flickering neon of the CAMELOT MOTEL sign.

                                  VERONICA (CONT'D)
                    ...Sooner or later, the people you 
                    love betray you.

      As the man crosses back toward his room, CAMERA STOPS on the 
      door to the first floor ROOM 8. As the CAMERA PUSHES IN on 
      the keyhole...

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    And here s where it ends up -- fat 
                    men, cocktail waitresses, cheap 
                    motels on the wrong side of town.

      REVERSE ANGLE on a nondescript sedan parked on the street 
      facing the motel. There s a figure in the driver s seat, but 
      we can see little more than that.                                                                                      2.



                                  VERONICA (CONT'D)
                    And a soon-to-be ex-spouse wanting 
                    a bigger piece of the settlement 
                    pie.


      VERONICA s P.O.V. - five CHOPPERS ridden by tattooed and 
      helmetless males -- an eclectic mix of Latinos, Anglos and 
      Asians aged 16 through 20 -- slow down as they approach 
      Veronica s car. They gaze into her car, and their expressions 
      turn from disbelief to festive anticipation.                                                                                      3.




      As two of the bikers dismount...

                                  WEEVIL
                    Car trouble, Miss?

      Off the imminent danger, we...

                                                                      SMASH CUT TO 
                                                                      MAIN TITLES                                                                                      4.



      FIRST ACT


      Veronica gets out of the car. She shoulders a backpack and 
      heads toward the school.

      ON SCREEN: 18 HOURS EARLIER.


      A HUNDRED STUDENTS have formed a tight circle around the flag 
      pole. Veronica needs to get through the circle in order to 
      enter the building. As she pushes through the crowd, we hear 
      the voices of random students.

                                    CAT-IN-THE-HAT RAVER
                    Who put him there?

                                  BAND DORK
                    Bikers did it.

                                  PEP SQUADDER 
                    Why doesn t somebody cut him down?

                                    PENCIL-NECKED GEEK
                            (sarcastically)
                    Yeah. I ll do it. I want to be the 
                    guy up there tomorrow.

      Once Veronica makes her way through the assembled students, 
      she discovers what everyone is staring at.

      REVEAL - 16-year-old WALLACE FENNEL, African American, 
      skinny, naked and duct taped to the flag pole. The tape 
      obscures any graphic flesh. The misspelled word  Snich  has 
      been shoe polished in white across his chest.

      Some CLOWN from the crowd jumps out next to Wallace and mugs 
      for a CAMERA held by his buddy. Wallace stares straight 
      ahead, refusing to meet anyone s gaze. He attempts bravely, 
      though not completely successfully, to maintain his 
      composure.

                                  VERONICA
                          (addressing the Clown)
                    Move.

                                  CLOWN
                    Who died and made you...

      The clown notices Veronica flipping open a large pocket 
      knife. He backs away quickly.                                                                                      5.



                                  CLOWN (CONT D)
                    ...Jesus. You are a freak.

      Veronica begins cutting through the tape releasing Wallace 
      bit by bit. Wallace glances at Veronica gratefully.

                                  VERONICA
                    You re new, aren t you?

      Wallace nods.

                                  VERONICA (CONT'D)
                    Welcome to Peninsula West High.
                          (disdainfully scanning the 
                            faces in the now-
                            dispersing crowd)
                    Go Pirates.


        A customized VW BUG with a HUGE PLASTER GODZILLA affixed to 
      the top of it screeches to a stop in the fire lane in front 
      of the school. The DRIVER gets out, runs around the car, 
      opens the passenger side door, withdraws a HALF DOZEN LARGE 
      PIZZAS and sprints toward the school, giving a campus 
      security guard a little nod.


      Wallace walks outside, and what he discovers scares the hell 
      out of him.

      REVEAL - FIFTEEN MEMBERS of the P.C.H. BIKE CLUB -- including 
      the ones we ve already met -- sitting on choppers out in the 
      parking lot. Every biker seems to be staring holes through 
      Wallace.

      DEPUTY SACKS (doughy, late 20s) has Hector and Phuong 
      handcuffed and bent over the hood of the cruiser.

                                    SHERIFF LAMB
                    They say they paid.
                          (annoyed by Wallace s 
                            silence)
                    Well? Did they?

      Off the hard, hard stares of the assembled bikers.

                                    WALLACE
                    Yeah.                                                                                    13.



                                  HECTOR
                    Like I said.

                                    SHERIFF LAMB
                    Shut up.
                          (back to Wallace, 
                            condescending)
                    But you pressed the alarm, anyway?

                                    WALLACE
                    It was an accident.

      Lamb shakes his head in disgust and heads into the store.

                                    SHERIFF LAMB
                    What a pussy.

      WALLACE S P.O.V. - Lamb goes behind the counter and removes 
      the VIDEO TAPE from the surveillance system. He comes back 
      out of the store and addresses his deputy.

                                    SHERIFF LAMB (CONT D)
                    Sacks, get them in the car. We ve 
                    got enough here.
                          (then to Wallace)
                    Grow up. Get some balls.


      Veronica arrives at a low rent apartment complex. She enters 
      a courtyard through a metal gate. An EMPTY SWIMMING POOL 
      occupies most of the courtyard. A couple feet of standing 
      brackish water tells us that the pool is out of service.

      As Veronica walks past the swimming pool, Coldplay s  DON T 
      PANIC,  begins playing out of an open apartment window.

                                  COLDPLAY
                    We live in a beautiful world/Yeah, 
                    we do.../Yeah, we do...

      Veronica whips her head up toward the window. As she does, we 
      hear the huge SPLASH of someone CANNONBALLING into the pool. 
      Veronica turns her attention back toward the pool, but when 
      she does, she s no longer at the Commodore, she is in...


      ...and surfacing at the side of the pool is Duncan Caine. He 
      smiles up at Veronica and speaks.

                                  DUNCAN
                    Hey, baby. It s our song.

      Veronica glances up and sees a full dozen bathing-suit-clad 
      beautiful people from the cafeteria -- including Monica, 
      Scott, Lucy and Logan -- gathered around a table on the patio 
      of a gorgeous upper-middle class house.

      Angle on Veronica attempting vainly to compute what she s 
      seeing. Then...                                                                                    16.



                                  FEMALE VOICE (O.C.)
                    Happy birthday, Veronica. Are you 
                      surprised?

                                  VERONICA
                          (lighting up)
                    Mom? MOM?

      But when Veronica turns, she is back in...


      Veronica s P.O.V. - elderly, African-American neighbor 
      ESTELLE WHITE is attempting to get through the gate with an 
      arm load of GROCERIES. She gives Veronica a quizzical look.

                                  MRS. WHITE
                    It s me, honey. Can you give me a 
                    hand?

      Mrs. White takes Veronica out of her trance. Veronica gives 
      one last look back at the brackish pool, shakes the cobwebs 
      from her head, and jogs toward the gate.

                                  VERONICA
                    Yeah, sure. No problem.


      Veronica sits at a picnic bench. She throws a tennis ball and 
      the big pit bull chases it down with frightening efficiency. 
      She hears an odd sound -- the HIGH-PITCHED WHIRRING of a 
      small engine. Looking up, Veronica spots a RADIO-CONTROLLED 
      AIRPLANE doing laps around the park sky.

      Veronica scans the park until she spots the plane s owner.

      VERONICA S P.O.V. - Wallace Fennel operates an antennaed 
      radio control unit some 75 yards away. He s already seen 
      Veronica. He looks down from the plane, gives Veronica a 
      pleasant wave and smile.

      Veronica smiles despite her best intentions. She offers 
      Wallace a SELF-CONSCIOUS WAVE in return. As she observes him, 
      we get a sense that Veronica is being won over by him. 
      Whether it s his bravery in showing up outdoors by himself or 
      a kinship derived from a their similar solitary statuses.


      Veronica gets out of her car at a low-rent downtown 
        intersection carrying the lunch sacks. She moves toward a 
      door next to a liquor store. She stops when she sees a JAGUAR 
      CONVERTIBLE parked in front of the door.

      CLOSE ON the license plates which read  CAINE 2 

      Veronica attempts to absorb what this might mean as she makes 
      her way to the door.

      STENCILLED on the door are the words: MARS INVESTIGATIONS.

      Veronica opens the door and a small bell above the door 
      rings. She immediately begins climbing stairs. The office 
      itself is above the liquor store.


      Veronica is parked in her car on a hillside road.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.)
                    I read somewhere that in Rio De 
                    Janeiro the wealthiest citizens, 
                    those with European blood, live in 
                    the valley next to the ocean, and 
                    poor people, the dark-skinned 
                    Indians who work in their houses 
                    and shops, live in hovels in the 
                      surrounding mountains.

      VERONICA S P.O.V. - The 15 million dollar CAINE ESTATE is in 
      the foreground. Behind it is the PACIFIC OCEAN.

                                  VERONICA (V.O) (CONT D)
                    It s the opposite here. More 
                      millionaire s per capita in Playa 
                    Del Costa than any town in 
                      California, and they all want a 
                    view of the ocean. They just don t 
                    want to get wet or sandy.

      JAKE CAINE (43, handsome, fit, dangerous -- think Ari 
      Emannual) emerges from the house. Veronica reaches up and 
      turns over the ignition as it begins to rain.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    The higher up the hill you live, 
                    the better person you are. The 
                    Caines live at the very top.

      Caine pulls his RANGE ROVER with plates that read CAINE 1 out 
      of the private drive. Veronica waits a moment, then follows.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    When my dad was sheriff, we had a 
                    house in the hills. 
                                  (MORE)                                                                                    24.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    It was near the bottom, but it was 
                    in the 94409 zip code. We were 
                    09ers. We were accepted. If not 
                    accepted, tolerated.


      Veronica follows Jake Caine until he pulls into the private 
      drive of the what looks like a SCALED-DOWN GETTY MUSEUM. As 
      the Range Rover disappears into underground parking, CAMERA 
      HOLDS on the CAINE SOFTWARE sign.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.)
                    Streaming video. You wouldn t have 
                    it if it weren t for Jake Caine and 
                    the fine people at Caine software.

      Veronica whips into a parking spot where she can have a view 
      of the building. The lights on the top two floors of the five 
      story building are off.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT'D)
                    As the legend goes, he spent 16 
                    months holed up in a Holiday Inn 
                    suite with a handful of college 
                    computer science buddies until they 
                    emerged with a killer ap that would 
                    change the way we thought about 
                    computers and the internet. He made 
                    300 million the day the company 
                    went public. Everyone, in fact, who 
                    worked on the project became a 
                      millionaire.

      As Veronica watches, a the lights in a huge corner suite 
      office turn on.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    That s why, when Jake s daughter, 
                    Lilly...
                          (Veronica momentarily 
                            loses her detachment)
                    ...my friend, Lilly...didn t make 
                    it home from a dance team car wash 
                    fund raiser, everyone assumed she d 
                    been kidnapped. 


      MUSIC CUE:  Lady Marmalade.  The Christina Aguilera version.


      Twenty or so cute teenaged girls scrub and rinse their peers  
      cars.                                                                                     25.


      Short-haired, cute as a button, fellow dance teamer 15-year-
      old Veronica watches with amusement as Lilly dances while she 
      scrubs.

                                  VERONICA
                    God, Lilly, aren t you Little Miss 
                    Prozac Nation.

                                  LILLY
                    High on life, Veronica Mars.
                          (then, conspiratorially)
                    I ve got a secret. A good one.

                                  DANCE TEAM ADVISOR
                    Girls! Less talk. More scrub.

                                  LILLY
                          (rolling her eyes, then 
                            mouthing to Veronica)
                    Later.


      Veronica, still in her car-washing clothes -- sits in the 
      passenger seat of a sheriff s cruiser, an In-N-Out sack in 
      her lap. The entire Caine living room area is visible through 
      huge floor to ceiling glass walls.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.)
                    I ll never forget that night. Dad 
                    and I were coming home from In-N-
                    Out when the call came in.

      VERONICA s P.O.V. - her father, dressed in full sheriff 
      regalia -- is talking to Jake and Celeste Caine. Even from 
      this distance he shows obvious empathy. Another sheriff s 
      department car with flashing lights arrives.

      As Veronica watches, then-deputy, DON LAMB gets out of the 
      car and heads toward the house. He notices Veronica in the 
      car and shoots an imaginary hand pistol at her, smiles and 
      winks before heading in. It s meant as playful, but it s 
      absolutely the wrong time and place. Veronica rolls her eyes.

      Veronica spots her boyfriend Duncan Caine rocking back and 
      forth on the end of a couch. Though she was told to stay in 
      the car, she gets out and enters the house behind Lamb.


      As Veronica observes, the lights at the top of Caine software 
      turn off. She starts her car.


      Veronica pulls into the exact spot she was in for the cold 
      open. She observes as Jake gets out of his car, makes his way 
      to the door of one of the rooms and knocks.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.)
                    So Mrs. Caine was right. Not a lot 
                    of high powered business meetings 
                    taking place at the Camelot at one 
                    in the morning. 
                                  (MORE)                                                                                    27.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.) (CONT'D)
                    They say the divorce rate is twice 
                    as high for parents who lose a 
                    child.


      The five members of the P.C.H. Bike Club that we met in the 
      cold open, cruise down the street, weaving in and out of 
      traffic, raising hell, terrorizing lost tourists, hopping up 
      on sidewalks, making kissy faces at female motorists.                                                                                    30.



      They turn down a nearly deserted road. We notice the 
      flickering neon of the CAMELOT MOTEL ahead of them. The first 
      biker notices Veronica s car parked along the side of the 
      road. He points it out to the others.

      TIGHT ON WEEVIL s FACE as he realizes what it is. Weevil 
      skids to a stop in front of Veronica s car, makes the 
      international gesture for  roll down your window. 

      As Veronica electronically rolls down both passenger windows.

                                  WEEVIL
                    Car trouble, Miss?

      Veronica scans the five guys positioned around her car. Two 
      of the bikers are dismounting. One moves toward her.

                                  VERONICA
                    Yeah, as a matter of fact. I think 
                    it s a loose belt, but if you 
                    wouldn t mind checking under...

      As she s speaking, the dismounted biker, let s call him 
      MOUTH, approaches Veronica. He s reaching in to grab her as 
      he s talking to his leader.

                                  MOUTH
                    Hey, Weevil, who gets...

      But as soon as Mouth s hand gets close to Veronica, a BLUR 
      from the back seat EXPLODES outward.

      Suddenly, Veronica s pit bull has Mouth on his back. Mouth s 
      wrist is in the pit bull s mouth. The pit bull growls, but 
      seems to be awaiting further instructions.

                                  MOUTH (CONT D)
                    Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Get him 
                    offa me.

                                  VERONICA
                    Backup! Chill!

      We now understand what Veronica s father meant by  Take 
      Backup.  Backup lowers his growling, but he doesn t let go of 
      Mouth. Jesus is off his chopper in a heartbeat.

      Jesus comes straight at Veronica aggressively.

                                  JESUS
                    Girl, you better get your dog offa 
                    him.                                                                                    31.



      Jesus lifts Veronica s door lock and begins to open her door. 
      Veronica reaches out and applies a police-issue STUN GUN to 
      her attacker. Jesus drops like a rock. Veronica steps out of 
      her car, her door already partially open. She addresses a 
      surprised, yet darkly-amused Weevil.

                                  VERONICA
                    Tell you what. We ll call a truce.

                                  WEEVIL
                    Oh, baby. It s too late for that.

                                  VERONICA
                    You leave that kid at school alone 
                    for a week, and I ll make sure your 
                    boys walk.

      The other bikers shoot looks at Weevil. This is big.

                                  WEEVIL
                    How you gonna make that happen?

                                  VERONICA
                    I could explain it, but you just 
                    wouldn t understand it.

      Weevil knows he s being insulted. Two can play that game.

                                  WEEVIL
                    So why you care so much for that 
                    skinny negro? Things I heard about 
                    you...he must really lay the pipe 
                    right.

                                  VERONICA
                    Yeah. That s it.

      Veronica and Weevil notice Jesus crawling bravely toward 
      Veronica s feet. Veronica pushes a button on her stun gun and 
      we see the sparks fly between the connection points.

                                  WEEVIL
                    All right, Jesus, we get it. You re 
                    a badass. But for once don t be 
                    stupid.

                                  VERONICA
                    Not bad advice.

      Weevil looks up at Veronica, smirks. He gets her point.                                                                                    32.



                                  WEEVIL
                    All right. A week. After that, 
                    we ll come for you, your boy...
                          (using Wicked Witch voice)
                    ...and your little dog, too.

      Backup growls.

                                  VERONICA
                    Backup. Be cool.

      Backup lets Mouth s wrist go, and allows him to crawl out 
      from under him. Weevil smiles at Veronica, the lust quotient 
      is extremely high. As Mouth and Jesus make their way back to 
      their choppers...

                                  WEEVIL
                    Yeah. That s not bad advice, 
                    either. You be cool, Veronica Mars. 
                    And if you get lonely out here 
                    sitting by yourself in your car, 
                    remember, Weevil love you long 
                    time.

      Weevil punctuates his overture by KICK STARTING his chopper. 
      The other bikers follow suit. Veronica issues an ironic 
      thumbs up to the proposition. She watches as the bikers drive 
      off into the night.

      CAMERA PUSHES IN on Veronica s face as she watches them go. 
      There s a hint of sadness.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.)
                    Quite a reputation, I ve got, huh?
                          (beat)
                    You want to know how I lost my 
                      virginity?
                          (another beat)
                    So do I.


      Veronica staggers her way toward an outdoor chaise.

      VERONICA S P.O.V. - the people staring at her as she makes 
      her way to the chaise are BLURRY. She s either unimaginably 
      drunk from one drink, or she s been slipped something.


      Veronica, having put herself together as best as she can, 
      steps out of the poolhouse. We see the remnants of a party. 
      Garbage. Bottles. Cigarettes. Veronica s expression is no 
      longer pitiful. It is defiant. No one will see her cry.                                                                                    34.




      Veronica arrives at where she s parked her car. Her tires 
      have been slashed. A circle has been shoe polished on the 
      windshield to indicate where the driver will be sitting, and 
      the word  SLUT  has been scrawled next to it.

      Displaying no emotion, Veronica walks around the car and 
      discovers a different sentence on the back windshield. This 
      one reads...ABEL, IT SHOULD VE BEEN HER.

      Veronica absorbs this, then turns and begins making the slow 
      walk down the hill into town.

                                                                  END OF ACT TWO                                                                                    35.




      The door of the room Veronica has been staring at for the 
      past two hours finally opens. The first person out is a WOMAN 
      IN HER MID 20S, pretty.

      SNAP - the image is frozen for a moment as Veronica takes the 
      first of many photos.

      Jake Caine steps out of the motel room. He helps the mystery 
      woman with her coat.

      SNAP - Veronica freezes this image as well.

      ANGLE ON VERONICA sitting in the car taking photos.

                                  VERONICA (V.O.)
                    C mon. Give me the money shot.

      But it doesn t happen. There is no overt act of affection. 
      The pair make their ways separately to their cars as Veronica 
      continues to take photos. Off Veronica s mild frustration.


      Veronica is arriving for school. Again, she is exhausted. As 
      she moves toward the school, a big LEXUS SUV with SURFBOARDS 
      strapped to the roof pulls up beside her. Logan Hewitt rolls 
      down the window and speaks.

                                  LOGAN
                    Hey, Ronnie. We ve decided we d 
                    rather surf than study today. Wanna 
                    come with?

      Veronica looks up at the Lexus. She notices Duncan in the 
      passenger seat refusing to look in her direction. Three more 
      guys are in the back seat. One is sucking down a CORONA. The 
      other is WAGGLING HIS TONGUE through his first two fingers at 
      Veronica. Veronica doesn t dignify the query with a response 
      which only eggs Logan on further.

                                  LOGAN (CONT D)
                    C mon. Duncan ll promise to take 
                    off his shirt.

      The guys in the back seat cackle. Duncan shoots Logan an 
      angry look. Then, assertively...

                                  DUNCAN
                    Shut up.                                                                                    36.



                                  LOGAN
                    All right. All right.
                          (holding flask out window, 
                            waggling it)
                    What do you say to a little hootch?

      Veronica keeps walking, gives Logan the finger.

                                  LOGAN (CONT'D)
                    What s the matter? Aren t you your 
                    mother s daughter? Now, there was a 
                    woman who would do anything for a 
                    drink. What s she up to nowadays? 
                    Maybe she ll join us. You know 
                    where she is? Any clue?

                                  DUNCAN
                    C mon. Let s just go.

                                  LOGAN
                    She used to be fun.

      Logan hits the gas, and the car squeals out of the parking 
      lot leaving Veronica to stew.

      CAMERA PUSHES IN ON VERONICA S FACE...

                                  VERONICA (V.O.)
                    It s been a year since I ve heard 
                    from my mother.


      Keith grills a couple of steaks on a Hibachi. He s grooving 
      as he s flipping the meat, spicing it. Veronica watches her 
      father; we can see why, when everyone else turned on Keith 
      Mars, Veronica never did. She loves the man.

                                  VERONICA
                    Jake Caine went to the Camelot last 
                    night, met some sweet young thing.

                                  KEITH
                    Didn t I say something about you 
                    not getting involved in that?

                                  VERONICA
                      I remember you saying to take 
                    Backup.

      Backup, lying nearby, lifts his head at the mention of his 
      name. Keith focuses on the meat for a pregnant beat. He has 
      not given his daughter a normal life. Finally...

                                  KEITH
                    You get pictures.                                                                                    41.



                                  VERONICA
                    No money shot, but, yeah, a couple 
                    pretty good shots of the woman in 
                    question.

                                  KEITH
                          (giving up, smiling)
                    Lemme see.


      Angle on a well-maintained, modern building, lovingly 
      landscaped. The sheriff s department cars and a sign lets us 
      know where we are.


      Veronica s car pulls into the parking lot.


      As Veronica makes her way across the park, Wallace lands the 
      plane at her feet and comes jogging over. Wallace notices 
      Veronica s RED EYES.

                                    WALLACE
                    Are you okay? You don t look so 
                    good.

                                  VERONICA
                    Thanks.

                                    WALLACE
                      Seriously. Is everything cool?

                                  VERONICA
                          (changing topics)
                    I m fine. Got a present for you.

      Wallace looks inside, smiles.

                                    WALLACE
                    Man, the way people talk about 
                    you...
                          (off her look, defensive)
                    I m just saying...it s surprising 
                    you d help me out.

      CAMERA PUSHES IN ON VERONICA s FACE, and we...

                                                                      DISSOLVE TO:


      ...the face of 16-year-old Veronica as she trudges up the 
      sidewalk to the sheriff s department. She is a mess. The TORN 
      STRAP on her WHITE PARTY DRESS, her MATTED HAIR let us know 
      it is the morning she woke up in Monica Rivers pool house.


      We return to Veronica s present-day conversation with 
      Wallace.

                                  VERONICA
                    I had my own reasons for helping 
                    you out. Trust me.

                                    WALLACE
                    Oh, no. Don t think you re getting 
                    away with that. That act might play 
                    with the masses. But underneath 
                    that angry young woman shell, I 
                    know there s a slightly-less-angry 
                    young woman wanting to bake me 
                      something. You re a marshmallow, 
                    Veronica Mars. A cupcake. You re 
                    this close to joining  Up With 
                    People. 

      As is becoming habit, Veronica ends up smiling around Wallace 
      despite her best intentions.


      Veronica flies Wallace s plane. She is staring up in the air.

                                  VERONICA
                    Okay, how do I make it loop-the-
                    loop?

      But Wallace isn t staring up at the sky. The sound of LIMP 
      BIZKET from a distant car stereo has captured his attention.

                                    WALLACE
                    Uh, Veronica.

                                  VERONICA
                    Yeah?

                                    WALLACE
                    Your car.

      Veronica turns her attention from the sky to the parking lot.

      VERONICA s P.O.V. - Logan and the same buddies we saw with 
      him earlier have used someone s EXCURSION to block in 
      Veronica s car. The boys are lounging on Veronica s car.

      Veronica hands Wallace the radio controller and heads toward 
      the 09ers. Wallace begins to frantically land the plane. In 
      the b.g. of the shot, we see him complete the task, grab his 
      BACKPACK, then jog to catch up with Veronica.

      Veronica notices that Logan has a TIRE IRON in his hand.

                                  LOGAN
                    Veronica Mars. You know what your 
                    little joke cost me?                                                                                    58.



                                  VERONICA
                    Well, I m pretty sure you won t be 
                    getting your cock bong back.

      Logan leans up and uses the tire iron to smash out Veronica s 
      headlight. Veronica doesn t flinch, doesn t react. 

                                  LOGAN
                    Wrong answer. Want to guess again?

                                  VERONICA
                    Let s see. It ll cost you...? Hours 
                    of sexual gratification?

      Logan shakes his head, then furiously smashes out Veronica s 
      other light.

                                  LOGAN
                    No. Wrong again.

      Angle on Wallace, again staring in disbelief as Veronica 
      refuses to be intimidated. Then, he notices something else 
      beyond the 09ers, and he begins to smile.

                                  LOGAN (CONT D)
                    My car. My dad took away my car for 
                    a month.

                                  VERONICA
                          (feigning absurd concern)
                    Oh, my god, Logan. Wow. Dude. Had I 
                    known. Are you all right?

      One of the random 09ers, let s call him STEVE, notices the 
      same thing Wallace has noticed. He attempts to get Logan s 
      attention as well.

                                  STEVE
                    Uh, Logan...

      But Logan is too wrapped up in his conversation with Veronica 
      to stop. He digs the blade of the tire iron into the paint of 
      Veronica s hood and carves a  C  then a  U  in her hood until 
      the music stops suddenly.

      Everyone turns around suddenly to discover the entire P.C.H. 
      Bike Club -- including HECTOR and PHUONG -- surrounding the 
      group. Weevil is already off his chopper. He wades 
      confidently into the fray. He glances down at Logan s 
      handiwork.

                                  WEEVIL
                    Yeah, man, I think she s cute, too.                                                                                    59.



      Weevil stands for a pregnant moment, nose-to-nose with Logan. 
      Logan doesn t back down or look away, but he doesn t resist 
      when Weevil takes the tire iron from his hand.

      Jesus, who has boarded the EXCURSION to turn off the music, 
      leans out of the driver s door and cuts through the tension 
      by holding up a CD.

                                  JESUS
                    Hey, is this O-Town any good? My 
                    little sister likes it, but she 
                    likes ponies and juice boxes.

      None of the 09ers respond. As Weevil takes the tire iron and 
      makes his way over to the Excursion, Wallace leans close to 
      Veronica, whispers.

                                    WALLACE
                      I suddenly feel like I m in a scene 
                    from The Outsiders.

                                  VERONICA
                    Be cool, Soda Pop.

                                    WALLACE
                    Weevil thinks you re cute.

                                  VERONICA
                    I heard.

      Steve realizes what s about to happen; he starts to freak.

                                  STEVE
                    Uh, that s not Logan s car. That s 
                    my mom s.

      Weevil smirks just before he swings the tire iron and takes 
      out both headlights in the Excursion.

                                  WEEVIL
                    Just tell your mom you and your 
                    four friends were out picking on a 
                    girl when a bunch of bikers stopped 
                    and scared you away. I ll bet she 
                      understands.
                          (then to all of them)
                    You can go now. Get out of here.

      Logan gives Veronica a look of contempt before starting to 
      head to the car. Weevil notices.

                                  WEEVIL (CONT D)
                    Except you. You apologize.                                                                                    60.



                                  LOGAN
                    Fuck you.

      Wrong answer. Weevil levels Logan with a right hook. Logan 
      struggles to stand.

                                  WEEVIL
                    I said to say you re sorry.

      Logan makes it all the way up, looks right into Weevil s eye.

                                  LOGAN
                    And I said,  Fuck y...

      Weevil drops Logan again. Weevil looks over at his boys gives 
      them a smile and shrug that betrays a little bit of 
      admiration for Logan. Logan, gushing blood from his nose, 
      begins to pick himself up again.

                                  WEEVIL
                    Here we go again. Ready to tell 
                    Miss Mars how sorry you...

                                  VERONICA
                    Let him go. I don t want his 
                    apology.

                                  WEEVIL
                    You sure? I could do this for a 
                    while.

      Veronica nods. Logan makes it to his feet, meets both 
      Veronica s and Weevil s gazes straight on before climbing 
      into the shotgun seat of the Excursion. The 09ers peel out of 
      the lot, leaving Veronica and Wallace with the bikers.

                                  WEEVIL (CONT D)
                    They came in this afternoon and 
                    just let Phuong and Hector go. No 
                      explanation. Just said charges had 
                    been dropped.

                                  VERONICA
                    That s fortunate.

      Weevil realizes he ll get no more info. He nods at her car.

                                  WEEVIL
                    My uncle has a body shop out on the 
                    highway. You come in, and I ll make 
                    sure your body gets the full 
                    service treatment.                                                                                    61.



                                  VERONICA 
                    Okay, now you apologize.

                                  WEEVIL
                          (laughs, but...)
                    Fine. Was that too dirty? In the 
                    future...

                                  VERONICA
                    Not to me, Gaywad. To Wallace.

                                  WEEVIL
                          (you gotta be kidding)
                    Shit.

                                  VERONICA
                          (genuinely angry)
                    You duct taped him to a flag pole! 
                    You do that to me, and you won t 
                    see next week.

                                  WEEVIL
                    I have no doubt.

      Weevil doesn t apologize, doesn t even look at Wallace.

                                  VERONICA
                    Fine. Wallace has the only copy of 
                    the Sac-N-Pac video tape. Wallace, 
                    let s go decide what to do with it.

      Veronica gets in her car. Wallace moves toward the passenger 
      door, but Weevil stops him and musters some sincerity.

                                  WEEVIL
                    Hold on. Look, man. Sorry about 
                    taping you to the flag pole.

                                    WALLACE
                    All right.

                                  WEEVIL
                    Can I get that tape from you, now?

                                    WALLACE
                    No.

      Wallace gets in the car. He s got the P.C.H. Bike Club right 
      where he wants them. Veronica smiles, starts the car, and 
      pulls out of the lot. No one makes a move to stop her.

      Off Weevil watching Veronica disappearing from view.                                                                                    62.



