
    SOMEONEis lying in the tall grass just under the crest of 
    this ridge, the verdant scene AWASH in SUNLIGHT, the SOUND of 
    CRICKETS filling our ears.  The setting feels almost hyper-
    real, every color and sound heightened until they seem to 
    resonate with our own senses.

    A HAND enters frame as a MANruns his fingers through the 
    preternaturally green blades of grass, each shimmering with 
    dew, before plucking one and bringing it to his mouth to 
    chew... as we RISE into a Spaghetti Western-style CLOSE-UP:  
    keen, watchful EYES under the brim of a dusty slouch hat, eyes 
    that have seen more than their share of bloodshed and death.

    MAN S POV:  a bucolic vista of a rural RAILWAY STATION and the 
    sleepy little TOWN built around it.  The locale:  the American 
    South; the time, 1863.  The man raises a set of FIELD GLASSES.

    FIELD GLASS POV:  a platoon's worth of CONFEDERATE SOLDIERS 
    load supplies onto a short freight train that s also taking on 
    water and coal.

    THE MAN lowers the field glasses, then wriggles back on his 
    elbows until he has sufficient cover to stand, revealing that 
    he s wearing the UNIFORM of a Union Colonel.  He walks back 
    down the ridge, where an entire MOUNTED CAVALRY TROOP -- 
    nearly a hundred men, most of whom have seen hard action -- 
    wait in a line, their horses snorting restlessly and pawing 
    the grass.  As the Colonel mounts up beside his grizzled 
    CAPTAIN at the front of the line --

                                      COLONEL
                    Caught em napping, Captain.  Men ready?  

                                      CAPTAIN
                    Ready, willing and eager.

    The Colonel nods, eyeing the troop approvingly -- until his 
    gaze stops on a young CORPORAL, one leg hooked casually over 
    the pommel of his saddle as he looks away at the morning sun.  
    The Colonel frowns.

                                      COLONEL
                    Not inconveniencing you are we, 
                    Corporal?                                                                                    2.


    The corporal turns, revealing a handsome face dominated by a 
    pair of arresting GREEN EYES.  He smiles an innocent, naive 
    smile.

                                      CORPORAL
                    No, sir.  Just admiring the day.

                                      COLONEL
                    You new here, son?

                                      CORPORAL
                    Joined the regiment at Vicksburg, sir.

    The Colonel eyes him for a beat longer, something about this 
    new trooper bothering him on an unconscious level.  Then he 
    draws his sword and nods to his bugler.

                                      COLONEL
                    Give us a tune.

    THE RIDGE - A MOMENT LATER

    The charge SOUNDS as the troop thunders over and down into --


    The rebels loading the train at the end of the street scatter.  
    It looks like the Colonel s charge has indeed surprised them.  
    But suddenly, rifles poke out of windows and over the parapets 
    of roofs.  Simultaneously, the door of a freight car at one 
    end of the street slides open, revealing a GATLING GUN, while 
    TWO WAGONS are wheeled out of stables at the other end of the 
    street, blocking it off as more Confederate soldiers take up 
    firing positions behind them.  As the surprised Colonel and 
    his confused troop pull up --

                                      CAPTAIN
                    Colonel, it s a trap!  It s a --

    He s SHOT OFF HIS HORSE.  All hell breaks loose:  a chaotic 
    bloodbath straight out of a Peckinpah film.  Both sides take 
    heavy casualties as bodies tumble from roofs and horses.  And 
    right in the middle of it is --

    THE COLONEL -- slashing with the saber, shooting with his 
    sidearm, a cool customer in the middle of the chaos and 
    carnage all around him.   He wheels and guides his wild-eyed 
    horse with his knees until the animal is SHOT out from under 
    him and they crash to the ground.  As he struggles to free his 
    pinned leg, he suddenly hears:

                                      VOICE
                    You re not fooling anyone, Frank.                                                                                    3.


    The Colonel looks up in astonishment to see:

    THE GREEN-EYED CORPORAL

    standing casually over him, untouched and seemingly 
    unconcerned by the bloody chaos swirling around him, almost as 
    if it didn t exist.  

                                      COLONEL
                    What -- what did you say?

                                      CORPORAL
                    I said you re not fooling anyone, Frank.    
                    Least of all, yourself.

    And so saying, he draws his own revolver and SHOOTS the 
    Colonel in the chest.  The Colonel is knocked back down.  He 
    finds himself staring up at the sky... a BLUE SKY that 
    gradually turns DARK, until the cold pinpricks of STARS 
    appear, and we DISSOLVE TO:

    CLOSE ON THE SAME MAN S FACE

    Eyes closed, head now propped on a temperfoam pillow, some 
    sort of sparely elegant, futuristic HEADSET wrapping around 
    his temples.  He opens his eyes, a confused look on his face 
    as he tries to sort out what happened to him.  The sounds of 
    battle have been replaced by the quiet, nearly inaudible hum 
    of machinery and electronics, the Technicolor surroundings and 
    sweeping cinematography now swapped for de-saturated hues and 
    a more naturalistic hand-held camera -- fantasy, for reality.  
    REVEAL we re in:


    -- outside the corridor, revealing it to be part of an aft 
    LIVING MODULE of a LARGE SPACE CRAFT, long as a football field 
    and comprised of a variety of interconnected modules rotating 
    with a spinning cylindrical core, capped at the prow by a 
    wedge-like armored flange, like the head of a battering ram, 
    and at the stern by a ring of ion drive THRUSTERS encircling a 
    series of thick alloy DISKS.

    The overall look is neither sleek  Star Trek  nor Gothic 
     Alien  but something much closer to a blandly contemporary 
    NASA design, only scaled up in size and reflecting more 
    advanced technology.  The name "PHAETON" is painted on the 
    side beside the familiar NASA LOGO, and a larger CORPORATE 
    LOGO of the private Consortium that is funding this mission.  
    And as we PUSH IN on the ship s name, we CUT TO:


    Camera pushes in on the exterior of the access tunnel:  a tube 
    connecting two modules, about a third of the way forward.


    Pushing in now on a bulbous module near the ship s midpoint, 
    with a skylight-like slit on one outer wall.


    Pushing in on a section near the prow, where a reinforced 
    viewing window looks out on the void.  We ve traversed the 
    length of the ship.


    Cruising through space.


    A man in a bathrobe stands on a balcony looking out as gentle 
    waves roll in, silvered by a nearly full moon.  It s Pike.  
    Again the scene presents itself with a hyper-real palette, as 
    if filtered by the romanticized lens of a Hollywood melodrama.

    A woman s arms slips around his waist.  He looks back to see 
    Rika, also in a robe.  She rests his head on his shoulder.

                                      PIKE
                    It s always so... restful out here.

                                      RIKA
                    Not always.  There are windy nights.  
                    Storms, even.  The last one almost took 
                    out the supports under this balcony.

    When Pike turns to look back at her, puzzled...

                                        RIKA(cont d)
                    I wanted it to be as real as possible.  
                    Though sometimes I think the program 
                    picks up on my own moods.  Tonight -- I 
                    guess I m in a romantic mood.  

                                      PIKE
                    I guess so.

                                      RIKA
                     Course we could meet at your place 
                    instead of mine.

                                      PIKE
                          (preoccupied)
                    I don t think you d like my place.

                                      RIKA
                    Why?  They don t have beds there?                                                                                    27.


                                      PIKE
                    Not really.

                                      RIKA
                    You know, a less secure woman might take 
                    it personally when she breaks the rules, 
                    invites a man to share the only private 
                    space she ll to have for the next 
                    decade, and can t get him to share his 
                    space in return. 

                                      PIKE
                    Good thing you re more secure than that.
                          (beat)
                    It s not something I... can share.  My 
                    module isn t as... relaxing as all this.  
                    More like something I m trying to sort 
                    out on my own.

                                      RIKA
                    Finding more problems to solve?  Don t 
                    you have enough of those in the real 
                    world, especially now?
                          (a beat, then)
                    Can t you let go of all that?  Just for 
                    now... just for this time we have 
                    together? 

    She takes his hand and, after a last look at the ocean, Pike 
    lets her lead him back into the dark house.


    The same setting depicted in the painting.  No sound other 
    than the sighing of the wind, the occasional buzzing of an 
    insect.  Meyer seems at ease here as he uses a fine brush to 
    add some evergreens to a mountainside, then looks up as the 
    same trees now appear on the actual mountainside.  He's 
    literally creating this setting with his brush, like some sort 
    of existential landscape designer.

                                      JEAN/A.I.
                    Pardon the interruption, Doctor Meyer.

                                      MEYER
                    Yes, Jean?

                                      JEAN/A.I.
                    Doctor Fallon is with you and would like 
                    a word.  

    Meyer takes a deep breath, drinking in the scene, then reaches 
    up to his temple --


    Meyer is continuing to paint both on the canvas and the larger 
    canvas of the wilderness.  Then his right hand SHAKES 
    slightly, marring his brushstroke, and he watches with disgust 
    as an ugly SLASHAPPEARSon the MOUNTAINSIDE.  Reaching for a 
    palette knife to scrape away the mistake, his eye is caught by 
    a GLINT OF LIGHT atop a distant ridge.  It seems to wink at 
    him.  Picking up a pair of BINOCULARS, he scans the ridge -- 
    and is stunned to find a lone FIGURE looking down at him, 
    using a small mirror to flash sunlight at him.

                                      MEYER
                    Jean, identify the human figure in my 
                    landscape.

                                      JEAN
                    I'm sorry, Doctor Meyer, but there is no 
                    other human figure.

                                      MEYER
                    I m looking right at him.

    And off his mounting puzzlement and irritation...


    Breathing heavily, Meyer scrambles up to the top of a rocky 
    ridge, only to find it empty.  Exhausted, he walks to the 
    other side where he peers over the edge of a SHEER DROP.  

    He never even sees the green-eyed manbefore he PUSHES HIM 
    OVER THE EDGE.  Meyer flails... the ground rushes up... at the 
    moment of impact --


    Starting close on the curving blue edge of the gas giant, then 
    pulling back rapidly through high atmosphere tendrils of 
    frozen methane, then Saturn-like rings of dust particles, 
    until the side of the moon Triton shoulders into frame -- 
    dwarfing the tiny form of Phaeton, now speeding past it.

                                      BILLIE (PRELAP)
                    This is it, ladies and gentlemen:  the 
                    moment of truth.  We re about to launch 
                    ourselves into the abyss of deep space 
                    for the first time...


    The revolving modules slowly stop spinning, the ship no longer 
    a spiraling bullet but an arrow aimed at Neptune s heart.


    Small thrusters on Phaeton s hull fire, nudging the ship 
    slightly closer to the approaching outer curve of the planet.                                                                                    46.



    A spectacular shot as Phaeton threads Neptune s rings -- small 
    ice particles obliterating themselves as they smash off the 
    ship s armored prow -- then skims over its blue atmosphere.


    Phaeton now veers away from Neptune, heading into deep space.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    Slingshot complete.


    ...directly behind Phaeton s massive aft  pusher plate.   At a 
    distance of 60 meters, it detonates -- the soundless EXPLOSION 
    creating a cigar-shaped wave of plasma debris which IMPACTS...

    ...the PUSHER PLATE, partially VAPORIZING the surface of the 
    giant disk, the vaporized atoms now providing an equivalent 
    amount of reactive thrust.

    The massive SHOCK ABSORBERS connecting the plates to the hull 
    COMPRESS, partially absorbing the explosive jolt, and...

    PHAETON leaps forward.


    emerges from the water at the end of a stroke.  Revealing Sue 
    in a SINGLE SCULL, taking her exercise in its intended natural 
    environment, thanks to the V.R. program.                                                                                    49.


                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    Of course, as with any new therapeutic 
                    methodology, there are variables and 
                    unknowns.


    In a driving RAINSTORM, a man pulls a hybrid car into the 
    driveway of a modest suburban home and parks.

                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    ...the human mind.


    A MANruns across the garage roof, a search light from a 
    HELICOPTER dogging his racing footsteps.  A cable dangles from 
    the helicopter, and clinging to the end of the cable...

    ...BILLIE, in the guise of rocker/super spy  Nikki Stardust  
    is chasing after  LAZARUS.   As the chopper dips low, she 
    drops from the cable, hits the roof and rolls, and is up and 
    running without missing a beat.

    At the edge of the roof, the man leaps up onto the hood of a 
    parked car, and then to the roof s parapet, launching himself 
    across a ten-foot gap to an adjoining rooftop.

    A moment later, Billie follows without hesitation.


    The parkour-style chase continues with Billie and her quarry 
    leaping across the gaps between buildings and jumping to lower 
    rooftops while the helicopter keeps pace, struggling to keep 
    its searchlight on both pursuer and pursued.

    Finally, Lazarus races up a CONSTRUCTION CRANE and into the 
    open top floor of --


    Pike, dressed again as a Union Colonel, stands by his horse, 
    watching his cavalry troop trot by him, saluting as they do, 
    while they sing along to a fife and drum (a popular Union 
    song:   Tramp, Tramp, Tramp ).  We sense Pike s saying goodbye 
    to all this, when --

                                      JEAN
                    Commander, Doctor Fallon is with you.

                                      PIKE
                    Thank you, Jean.

    The scene SHIMMERS AWAY around Pike, until he s back in --


    The airlock opens and the two tiny SPACE-SUITED FIGURESof 
    Pike and Sue emerge, trigger their PROPULSION PACKS, and move 
    slowly over to one of the larger modules.


    As the large antenna array swings rapidly out of the hull, 
    vertical rods SLASHING PIKE S SUIT while the mass of the array 
    SMASHES HIM OUT INTO SPACElike a giant pinball flipper.


    heads toward us.  Lacking a relativistic frame, it appears to 
    be moving very slowly.  During this long and stately approach, 
    we INTERCUT a series of brief video  confessions ...


    Johnson clambers out of a mountaineer's tent on sturdy 
    functional legs and takes in the stunning view.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    Maybe for all of us.


    At first we might think we re sharing the POV of a 
    surveillance camera. Then we pull back to find Jules standing 
    on the hull, sans space suit, his hand on the shoulder of his 
    young son, Shawn, their hair tousled by a light cosmic wind.

    And as we pull back from the strange yet somehow beguiling 
    image -- like Leo and Kate on the bowsprit of Titanic -- while  
    Bowie's "Space Oddity" plays on the soundtrack, we...

                                                                          FADE OUT.