      SUPER: The Cylons were created by Man. 

      EXT. SPACE - ARMISTICE STATION 

      A tiny SPACE STATION hangs in the deep void. 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

      SUPER: They were the product of a desire to make life easier on the planet Kobol. 

      EXT. SPACE - ARMISTICE STATION 

      A small COLONIAL TRANSPORT glides into frame and toward a docking with the station.  There 
    are no other ships or planets visible. 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

      SUPER:  At first, they were simple robots.  Toys.  Conversation pieces at parties for the rich and 
      trendy.   

      INT. ARMISTICE STATION 

      A simple, spare room of steel.  Two doors on opposite sides.  One metal table in the center.  A 
      MAN dressed in a Colonial lieutenant's uniform ENTERS from one door, carrying a briefcase.   

      The Lieutenant sits in one of only two chairs in the room -- one cushioned, one bare metal.  A 
      table sits between them.  Sitting on the table is what looks like a gooseneck lamp topped by a 
      single RED LIGHT that oscillates back and forth, passively "watching" everything in the room. 

    He opens his briefcase and takes out a few personal items -- a PICTURE FRAME of his WIFE, a 
      book, some official paperwork.   Sets them on the table.  Looks like he's going to be here a while.   

      The Lieutenant glances up at the door across from him.  It remains closed.  He picks up the book, 
      sighs and begins to read.   

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

      SUPER:  The Cylons became more advanced.  Began to work the mines.  Do the hard and 
      dangerous work Man no longer wished to do.   

      INT. ARMISTICE STATION 

      Hours later.  The Lieutenant is packing up his briefcase.  He leaves through the same door 
      whence he entered, passing by a Colonial FLAG, which is the only decoration in the room. 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

      SUPER:  And when the people of the Twelve Colonies of Kobol decided to war against each 
      other, the Cylons began to do their fighting and killing for them too.   

      INT. ARMISTICE STATION 

      The same Man ENTERS the same room, but now he's OLDER, wearing the rank of Captain.  He 
      opens his briefcase, takes out some personal items including a NEW framed photo of an OLDER       wife.  Nothing's  changed in the room.  The gooseneck with the red light still sits there on the 
      table.  The Captain sits in the chair, begins to do some paperwork -- which includes some 
      diagrams and photos of the original mechanistic Cylons. 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

      SUPER:  The Cylons were the greatest soldiers the planet had ever seen.  Smart.  Fast.  Deadly.  
      They made decisions without waiting for orders. 

      INT. ARMISTICE STATION 

      The Captain is now a Major.  Some grey in his hair.  The picture on the table is that of an older 
      wife holding a BABY.  Still no one else in the room.  The Major is idly waving a finger in front of 
    the oscillating RED LIGHT, following it back and forth, back and forth... 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

      SUPER:  And then the day came when the Cylons decided to kill their masters.   

 

      INT. ARMISTICE STATION 

      The Major is now a Lt. Colonel.  More grey in the hair.  The photo now shows his wife and 
      THREE YEAR OLD BOY.  The Lt. Colonel is doing some kind of word puzzle, his feet on the 
      table. 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

      SUPER:  The Twelve Colonies rallied together for the first time in centuries.  Betrayed by their 
      own technology, they fought the Cylons with weapons that didn't rely on computers. 

      INT. ARMISTICE STATION 

      The Lt. Colonel is now a full Colonel.  The Wife's photo is now in a separate frame, with a black 
      border.  The BOY has his own photo and is SIX YEARS OLD.  The Colonel is stretching his 
      aching back.  The red light is still there. 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

      SUPER:  After a long and bloody struggle, the war finally ended.  An armistice was declared.  The 
      Cylons left Kobol for another world to call their own. 

      EXT. SPACE - ARMISTICE STATION 

      The Transport is docked at the station. 

      SUPER:  A remote space station was built where Cylon and Human could meet and maintain 
      diplomatic relations.  Every month, the Colonials send an officer.   

      INT. ARMISTICE STATION 

      The Colonel leans way back in his chair, is about to nod off.       SUPER:  The Cylons send no one.  No one has seen or heard from the Cylons in over forty 
      years. 

      Suddenly the door in the room OPENS. 

      The Colonel lurches forward in shock -- what the hell?  Then his jaw drops when TWO CYLONS 
      ENTER.  Chrome metal bodies, red eyes tracking back and forth.  Similar to the 1970s version of 
    the Cylon warriors, but sleeker, more advanced, and more fluid in their movements.  They take a 
      couple steps into the room and then stop.  They stand there like silent deadly sentinels, making 
      no move for their weapons. 

      Silence.  The Colonel remains at the desk, surprised, but trying to be professional. 

      Then another shock.  The Cylons step aside and a beautiful WOMAN ENTERS.  She looks to be 
    in her twenties, with long flowing raven-black hair, drop-dead looks and a perfect body.  Her every 
      move, every gesture is smooth and precise.  Her eyes are keenly intelligent. 

      She sits down across from the shocked Colonel and favors him with a coquettish smile. 

    He blinks in surprise, smiles back. 

      She reaches across the small table, softly cups his chin, brings it to her and kisses him gently, 
      tenderly.  She breaks the kiss, looks into his eyes.   

                                  WOMAN 
                    Are you alive? 

                                  COLONEL 
                    Yes... 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Prove it. 

      He's totally flummoxed.  Doesn't know what to make of this.  But she is devastatingly beautiful, 
      and when she pulls him into a deeper and more sensual embrace, he doesn't resist.   

      Her hands slip into his shirt, his pants.  His fingers fumble with her clothes.   

      Her face drifts over his shoulder and we look into her eyes.  She smiles a secret smile to herself. 

      EXT. SPACE - ARMISTICE STATION 

      The Colonel's Colonial Transport EXPLODES. 

      INT. ARMISTICE STATION 

      The Colonel hears the explosion, tries to pull away, but she is far stronger than he is.  She holds 
      him tight.  Then too tight.  He has a moment of horrifying realization -- then she smiles a sweet 
    sad smile once more. 

      The metal Cylons stand there impassively, silently.  Red eyes moving back and forth... 

      The entire room EXPLODES around them. 

      EXT. SPACE - ARMISTICE STATION       Which is torn apart with a shattering series of EXPLOSIONS, one after the other... 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 

                                                                          OVER BLACK: 

      The echoing BOOMS of the explosions become the SOUND of RUNNING FEET on a metal 
      grating. 

      BANG-BANG, BANG-BANG, BANG-BANG... 

      FADE IN: 

      INT. GALACTICA - PASSAGEWAYS  

    It's one long take: 

      We're FOLLOWING a woman as she jogs through the narrow, cramped passageways of the 
      battlestar Galactica.  She's dressed in jogging bra, shorts, running shoes and eventually we'll 
      learn that her name is KARA THRACE.  We keep following Kara as she makes a left hand turn at 
      an INTERSECTION, crosses through a side passageway, makes another left, now going back in 
    the direction she came. 

    A TOUR GROUP of CIVILIANS is blocking her way up ahead.   

                                  KARA 
                    Make a hole! 

      The civilians scramble out of the way to let her pass.  CAMERA DROPS OFF on DORAL (30s) -- 
      one of those picture-perfect PR types who never seems to have a hair out of place.   

                                  DORAL 
                    Form follows function.   

    He leads the visitor-tagged tourists down the intersection. 

                                  DORAL (cont'd) 
                    Nowhere is this axiom of design more readily apparent 
                    than on board the world famous battlestar Galactica.  
                    This ship, the last of her kind still in service, was 
                    constructed over fifty years ago during the early days of 
                    the Cylon War.  Originally, there were twelve battlestars, 
                    each representing one of Kobol's twelve colonies.  
                    Galactica represented Caprica and was first commanded 
                    by... 

      They reach another intersection and Kara comes jogging through the passageway again. It's still 
      one take as we FOLLOW Kara on her laps. 

      She passes through another intersection where we DROP OFF on ADAMA -- a man in his late 
      fifties, with a weathered, lean appearance, iron-grey hair and so tall that he has to continually 
      duck and stoop to avoid the low overhead.  He wears a simple day uniform with a minimum of 
      insignia, and his clothes have a well-used, rumpled look.  He has a piece of PAPER in his hand 
      and he seems to be rehearsing a speech.                                   ADAMA 
                          (reading) 
                    "The Cylon War is long over.  Yet, we must not forget the 
                    reasons why so many sacrificed so much in the cause of 
                    liberty..." 

      Adama sees a passing officer -- CAPTAIN KELLY (30s). 

                                  KELLY 
                    Commander Adama, if I may...? 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Captain..? 

                                  KELLY 
                    Just wanted to say it's been a pleasure to serve in your 
                    command, sir.   

                                  ADAMA 
                    Thank you, Mister Kelly.  The honor's been mine.  Good 
                    luck in your next assignment. 

                                  KELLY  
                    Thank you, sir. 

      Adama resumes his walk. 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (from memory) 
                    "The Cylon War is long over.  Yet, we must not... Yet, we 
                    must not..." 
                          (glances at paper) 
                    "Yet we must not forget the reasons why so many were 
                    asked to sacrifice so much in..." 

      Bang-Bang, Bang-Bang -- Adama steps back from the intersection as Kara approaches.  She 
      both likes and respects Adama.  These morning exchanges are something of a ritual for them and 
      date back to a common experience in flight school. 

                                  KARA 
                    Morning, sir! 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Morning Starbuck!  Whaddya hear? 

                                  KARA 
                    Nothin' but the rain. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Then grab your gun and put the cat out. 

                                  KARA 
                      BOOM-cha-gah-la!  BOOM-BOOM-BOOM! 

                                  ADAMA                           (overlapping) 
                      BOOM-BOOM-BOOM! 

      We FOLLOW Kara as she grins and goes down two more left-hand turns and then back down the 
      Passageway and then DROPPING OFF on three enlisted Deck Hands -- PROSNA (18, male), 
      CALLY (21, female), SOCINUS (18, male) -- rushing somewhere in a hurry, and trying to get their 
      uniforms in order.  Prosna has a FLAT WRAPPED PACKAGE. 

                                  PROSNA 
                    C'mon!  Chief's gonna have our ass! 

                                  CALLY 
                    I know, I know!  Can't get this insignia to line-up... 

                                  SOCINUS 
                          (sees Adama) 
                    There's the Old Man now!  C'mon, we gotta go! 

      They pass by LT. GAETA (20s) and we DROP OFF on him as he stops Adama.  Gaeta has a 
      stack of MESSAGE PRINT-OUTS. 

                                  GAETA 
                    Morning, sir.   
                          (hands him messages) 
                    Com traffic from the midwatch.   

                                  ADAMA 
                    Morning.   
                          (re: messages) 
                    Anything interesting? 

                                  GAETA 
                    Mostly housekeeping.  Oh, there is one odd message we 
                    were copied on.  
                          (shows him the message) 
                    The one from Fleet headquarters.  Courier officer's 
                    overdue coming back from Armistice station. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Hm. 

                                  GAETA 
                    They're asking for a status report on all FTL capable 
                    ships in case they need someone to Jump out there 
                    tomorrow and see if his ship's had a mechanical 
                    problem. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    I think we're a little busy tomorrow, Mr. Gaeta.  What do 
                    you think? 

                                  GAETA 
                          (grins)                     Yes, sir.  And may I also take this opportunity to say it's 
                    been both a pleasure and an honor to serve under you 
                    these past three years. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Thank you, Mister Gaeta.  The honor's been mine. 

      Now we FOLLOW Gaeta (still one take) as he continues on his way.  He looks down an 
      intersection and sees COLONEL TIGH (40s) leaning against a bulkhead.  The Colonel looks like 
    he's about ready to puke.  Gaeta looks away quickly, not wanting to make eye contact and Gaeta 
      hurries off. 

      STAY WITH Tigh.  He steadies himself against the bulkhead, rallies, tries to clear his head then 
      heads off down the passage.  FOLLOW Tigh until he passes Doral and the tour group and we 
      DROP OFF on them. 

                                  DORAL 
                    You'll see things here that look odd, even antiquated to 
                    modern eyes.  Phones with cords, awkward manual 
                    valves, computers that barely deserve the name.  But all 
                    of it is intentional.  It's all designed to operate in combat 
                    against an enemy who could infiltrate and disrupt all but 
                    the most basic computer systems. 
                          (leads them down passage) 
                    Of course, those attitudes have changed through the 
                    years and Galactica is something of a relic.   A reminder 
                    of a time when we were so frightened by the capabilities 
                    of our enemies that we literally looked backward for 
                    protection.  Modern battlestars resemble Galactica only 
                    in the most superficial ways... 

      Bang-bang, Bang-bang... FOLLOW Kara again, down the Passageway and around the corner, 
      DROPPING OFF on Adama just as he manually OPENS a HATCH, and goes into a REPAIR 
      BAY, which finally ENDS THE TAKE.   

      INT. GALACTICA - REPAIR BAY - CONTINUOUS 

      This is a large space, designed for the maintenance and repair of the ship's fighters.  It's filled 
      with tools, diagnostic equipment, spare parts, hoses, and odd bits of machinery.  Like everywhere 
      on Galactica, space is at a premium and there's precious little in here that isn't used.   

      FIFTEEN ENLISTED DECK HANDS are milling about the Repair Bay, including Socinus, Prosna 
      and Cally.  Their chief petty officer, CHIEF TYROL is the first to spot Adama coming through the 
      hatch. 

                                  TYROL 
                    'tention on deck. 

      Everyone snaps to attention.   

                                  ADAMA 
                    Stand at ease.  Good morning, Chief. 

                                  TYROL 
                    Morning, sir; and thank you for coming down.       Tyrol is in his late thirties, rugged, with the worn look of a man who's spent a lifetime working in 
      and around big machines.  The crew would do anything for him and the officers respect him. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Always appreciate the chance to see where the real 
                    work is done.   

                                  TYROL 
                    This way, sir. 

      Tyrol walks him over toward a fighter covered with a TARP.   Adama notices that the entire crew 
    has quietly followed them over. 

                                  TYROL (cont'd) 
                    Sir, on behalf of Deck Crew Five I'd like to present a 
                    token of our esteem and appreciation for the many years 
                    you've served as commanding officer of this ship. 
                          (to hands) 
                    Places. 

      The Deck Hands each grab an edge of the tarp. 

                                  TYROL (cont'd) 
                    Present. 

      The tarp is smoothly whisked away to reveal a classic VIPER FIGHTER, virtually identical in 
      design to the 70's TV series.  Adama smiles and moves forward, not quite understanding yet, but 
      trying to look appreciative.  

                                  ADAMA 
                    Mark Two Viper.  Haven't seen one of these in about, 
                    oh... twenty years or so. 

                                  TYROL 
                    If the commander will take a closer look... 

      Something's up.  The Deck Hands are exchanging expectant looks.  Adama moves closer, then 
      sees it -- stencilled on the cockpit, just below the canopy are the words:  LT. WILLIAM ADAMA 
      "HUSKER"  Adama blinks for a moment in confusion, looks a question at Tyrol. 

                                  TYROL (cont'd) 
                    Tail number A894FG.   

      Adama can't believe it.  Tyrol glances at Prosna, who now steps forward with the wrapped 
      package and hands it to Adama.  Adama tears it OPEN and finds --  A PHOTO of himself as a 
      much younger man standing on the wing on this Viper. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Where... where'd you find her? 

                                  TYROL 
                    Rusting away in a salvage yard outside Caprica City.  
                          (beat) 
                    We hope the commander will consider letting her 
                    participate in the decommissioning ceremony.                                   ADAMA 
                    She'll fly! 

                                  TYROL 
                    We've restored the engines, patched up the guidance 
                    system, and replaced most of the flight controls.  She's 
                    fueled, armed, and ready to launch. 

      Adama is suddenly caught short, blindsided by an unexpected wave of emotion as he runs his 
      hands over his old fighter.  He steps closer, puts a hand on the fuselage as if in a dream.  Tyrol 
      senses this has suddenly become an intensely personal moment.  He silently signals the deck 
      hands, and they make a quiet, discreet EXIT.   

      Adama stays there, looking over his ship with nostalgia and sadness brimming in his eyes.  

                                  ADAMA 
                          (softly) 
                    The honor... is mine. 

      INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY 

      A clean, anti-septic office on the planet Kobol.  LAURA ROSLIN sits before the desk, patiently 
      waiting.  Laura is in her late forties, handsome, confident, with an innate intelligence bordering on 
    the brilliant.  But the quality that strikes us most strongly about Laura is that she has class. 

      The DOCTOR (40s) ENTERS, sits down at the desk with a carefully neutral expression.  He 
      clears his throat.  

                                  DOCTOR 
                    We've found a lump. 
                          (beat) 
                    Without surgery, it's impossible to know for certain, but I 
                    can tell you that statistically, 93% of these types of 
                    masses do turn out to be malignant. 
                          (long beat) 
                    Miss Roslin...? 

      She doesn't answer.  Doesn't look at him.  Finally... 

                                  LAURA 
                    Treatment? 

                                  DOCTOR 
                    The conventional approach is intensive radiation 
                    therapy, but there are several promising new drug 
                    therapies that will soon be approved for human testing, 
                    and --  

                                  LAURA 
                    Excuse me, I have a flight to catch. 

      She gets up and heads for the door.  The Doctor's seen this reaction before -- has probably seen 
      every reaction before. 

                                  DOCTOR                     I'd like to give you the name of a counselor who 
                    specializes in dealing with the emotional fallout from -- 

    But she's out the door.  The Doctor lets out a long, tired breath.   He writes on her chart.   

      ECU - THE CHART 

      There's a lot of technical language, but the one word that sticks out to us amid the Doctor's scrawl 
    is "terminal." 

      EXT. KOBOL - TRANSPORTATION HUB - DAY 

      A busy terminal where both aircraft and spacecraft await passengers.  A large SPACE 
      TRANSPORT is docked at one of the gangways.  We should feel like we're viewing this FX shot 
      through a hand-held camera. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - PASSENGER CABIN - DAY 

      The passenger cabin is narrow and cramped, like the modern-day Concorde.  Laura sits at a 
      window seat, staring out at the brilliant day, and lost in her own thoughts.  She can't help but put 
      a hand to her left breast... gently feels for the lump somewhere within.  A voice breaks the 
      moment: 

                                  VOICE 
                    Excuse me...? 

      Laura looks at a good-looking teenager standing in the aisle.   

                                  BILLY 
                    Secretary Roslin?   

                                  LAURA 
                    Yes. 

                                  BILLY 
                    Hi.  I'm Billy Keikeya.   
                          (blank look) 
                    Your new assistant. 

      BILLY is young (19), eager to please, very smart and very polite.  He's one of those rare people 
      who's usually smarter than the room, but never lets anyone know it.  He'll make a great diplomat 
      someday.  Laura quickly recovers. 

                                  LAURA 
                    Oh.  Hello.  Have a seat. 

    He hands her a thick 3-ring folder. 

                                  BILLY 
                    The Education Ministry sent your briefing book from the 
                    office. 

      She takes it, then looks out the window again for a long beat.  Billy quickly realizes something is 
      up with his new boss, but has the good sense not to pry.  He just waits.  Finally, Laura gathers 
      herself and shifts into business mode.                                   LAURA 
                    Do you know where we're going? 

                                  BILLY 
                    To the Galactica.  The ship's being retired and 
                    transferred to the Ministry as a museum ship. 
                          (beat) 
                    I took the liberty of reading the briefing on the way over.  
                    I hope that's okay. 

                                  LAURA 
                    That's fine. 
                          (beat) 
                    It's a long flight.  Hope you don't mind if I catch some 
                    sleep. 

                                  BILLY 
                    Not at all. 

      Laura settle back in her seat, faces away from Billy, closes her eyes.  Then her eyes open again.  
      She's not going to be getting much sleep. 

                                  PILOT (V.O.) 
                    Ladies and Gentlemen, we are ready for departure.  Our 
                    flight to rendezvous with Galactica is expected to take 
                    five hours, forty-three minutes.   Our cruising speed will 
                    be... 

      There's the WHINE of the ship's ENGINE, which takes us to... 

      EXT. TRANSPORTATION HUB - DAY 

    As the Transport ship LIFTS OFF from the terminal, our hand-held camera tracks it up toward the 
      sky. 

                                                                          DISSOLVE TO: 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA - CHASE CAMERA POV 

      Our first look at the enormous ship, cruising slowly through space sets the tone for all the exterior 
      space shots to follow -- We see Galactica not in a big sweeping 3-D hero shot, but as if it were 
      being seen from a hand-held camera aboard a plane flying alongside the ship.  The framing is a 
      little wobbly and the picture goes soft once or twice as our imaginary cameraman struggles to 
      keep the ship in focus. 

      INT. GALACTICA - SQUADRON READY ROOM 

      A Squadron Ready Room is both a briefing facility and an informal gathering place for off-duty 
      pilots.  The decor should reflect the many pilots and squadrons that have come and gone down 
      through the years and there are plaques, insignias, mementoes, souvenirs, etc. crowding the 
      walls.  There's a TV Monitor on in the b.g. with the volume LOW.   

    It's late in the midwatch and the Colonial equivalent to a poker game is going on.  Most of the 
      pilots have dropped out and the game is down to two players -- COLONEL TIGH and Kara 
      Thrace -- the woman we first met jogging through the halls.        Kara (30s) is a loner, which makes her an oddity among the tight-knit pilots.  She's as 
      undisciplined and rebellious out of the cockpit as she is calculating and precise in it.  Her mouth 
    has definitely held back her career.  And she dislikes Tigh.  She tosses in a stack of chips. 

      Tigh (40s) pours himself another drink.  He's well into his cups by now.  He's the ship's executive 
      officer (or XO).  He's tightly wound, moody, prone to outbursts of temper.  And he dislikes Kara.  
    He studies his cards, looks up at Kara... 

                                  TIGH 
                          (derisive) 
                    "Starbuck".  Now there's a call sign.  Starbuck.  How'd 
                    you get that nickname, anyway?  Never did hear the full 
                    story.   
                          (takes a drink) 
                    Was it before you got thrown in the brig as a cadet for 
                    drunk and disorderly or after? 

                                  KARA 
                    After. 

                                  TIGH 
                    After.  That's right, it was after. 
                          (tosses in chips) 
                    Thirty and thirty more. 

                                  KARA 
                          (casual) 
                    How's the wife? 

      The room goes deathly silent.  Glances between the other pilots.  Tigh freezes for a beat.  She's 
      definitely touched a sensitive and dangerous nerve. 

                                  TIGH 
                          (even) 
                    Just fine. 

                                  KARA 
                    Talk to her lately? 

                                  TIGH 
                    Bet's to you, Lieutenant. 

                                  KARA 
                    No rank at the table, Colonel.  Tradition and all that. 
                          (lights a cigar) 
                    So.  Another thirty to me.  Well, I think I'll just have to 
                    bring this lovely evening to a close. 
                          (turns over cards) 
                    Dominion.   

      Tigh's drops his hand.  Kara begins raking in the chips. 

                                  TIGH 
                    That's five hands in a row.                                   KARA 
                    Is it? 

                                  TIGH 
                    No one's that lucky, Thrace. 

                                  KARA 
                    Luck has nothing to do with it. 

                                  TIGH 
                    That's right. 

      Now it's ugly.  Kara meets his eyes. 

                                  KARA 
                    You have something to say, say it. 

      A tense beat, then a sudden erruption of violence as Tigh KNOCKS the table over.  Kara's on her 
      feet, gets in the first shot -- and CONNECTS with Tigh's face.  He staggers back, but the other 
      pilots swoop in and are hauling the dazed Tigh out of here before anything else can happen.  
      Kara watches him go with a smirk, then bends down to scoop up her winnings.   

    As she picks up the loot, we PUSH IN on the TV monitor jammed into a tiny cubbyhole in the wall.   
      A Colonial news program is on, with a REPORTER (30s) -- facing the camera in a comfortable 
      studio setting. 

                                    REPORTER (TV) 
                    For those of you just joining us from the Pyramid game 
                    in Geminon, welcome to The Spotlight -- our weekly 
                    interview program devoted to people making news on 
                    Kobol.    

      INT. TV STUDIO - BACKSTAGE 

      The studio is similar to those we're familiar with, but with smaller lights and cameras and slightly 
      less equipment.  As we move through the back stage area we find a WOMAN calmly standing 
      amid the cables and equipment of the off-stage area, watching the interview on a TV MONITOR.  
      She's in her twenties with short, Carrie Moss Matrix hair, wearing a perfectly tailored business 
      suit.  And if we looked really closely, we might see that she looks eerily similar to the same 
      woman who destroyed the Armistice Station. 

                                    REPORTER (TV) 
                    Today we're talking with Doctor Gaius Baltar. 

      BALTAR (40s) is a literal genius.  Elegantly dressed and aesthetically handsome.  He listens to 
    the reporter recite his bio with the affected humility of the truly arrogant. 

                                    REPORTER (TV)(cont'd) 
                    Although he has won three Magnate Prizes in the course 
                    of his distinguished career, he is perhaps best known for 
                    his controversial views on advanced computer 
                    technology which have earned him stinging 
                    condemnation from several leading conservative 
                      publications as well as something approaching cult                     figure status on many college campuses.  Dr. Baltar 
                    welcome again.  

                                  BALTAR (TV) 
                    Thank you, Kellan.  It's a pleasure to be here. 

      The Woman glances away from the monitor as a STAGEHAND goes to a small craft-service table 
      and makes himself a cup of coffee.  She watches him carefully, intently, focusing on every single 
      move as he pours the cup, puts in cream.  The interview continues in the b.g. 

                                    REPORTER (TV)  
                    Before the break, we were discussing your latest opinion 
                    piece in the  Caprican Daily News where you advocate 
                    the resumption of research into artificial intelligence.  
                    Could you summarize your position for our new viewers? 

      The Woman watches as another Stagehand waves the first Stagehand over to help with some 
      equipment.  The man takes a sip of his coffee, then leaves it on the table before going.  Her gaze 
      goes to his abandoned coffee. 

                                  BALTAR (TV) 
                    I'd be happy to.  My position is very simple:  the ban on 
                    research and development of artificial intelligence is a 
                    hold-over from the Cylon Wars.   

      The Woman goes to the craft-service table, picks up the coffee, inhales the smell deeply... then 
      takes a sip... rolls the liquid around in her mouth... smiles to herself and then puts the coffee cup 
      back before turning around and looking directly at the stage where the interview is taking place. 

                                  BALTAR (cont'd) 
                    I believe the ban is outdated and serves no useful 
                    purpose except to retard efforts to solve many of the 
                    problems plaguing Colonial society. 

      Baltar sees her in the shadows.  Their eyes meet and a flush of hot desire rises up into his face... 

      INT. BALTAR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT 

      The door SLAMS OPEN.  Baltar and the Woman are all over each other, clawing and tearing at 
      each other's clothing.   The Woman shoves him down on the couch, unzips his pants with a quick 
      motion.  

                                  WOMAN 
                    Miss me? 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Can't you tell? 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Your body misses me, but what about your heart?  Your 
                    soul? 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Yeah, those too...                                   WOMAN 
                    Do you love me, Gaius? 

      Whoa.  The words every bachelor on the make dreads.  Baltar freezes in his tracks. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    What? 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Do you love me? 

      She takes his face in her hand and looks deep into his eyes.  He blinks in surprise for a beat.  
      Hesitates, and we realize that Baltar, deep down, actually fears this woman on some level.   

                                  BALTAR 
                    Are you... are you serious? 

      Her eyes bore into his for a long beat.  Suddenly, she grins at him -- and Baltar relaxes as he 
      realizes she's messing with him.  Again.   

                                  BALTAR (cont'd) 
                    God, you had me worried there for... 

      She hikes up her skirt and mounts him.  Baltar's eyes widen in ecstasy. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    I'm hot, Gaius.  I'm so hot. 

      She begins to rock back and forth, faster and faster, and whatever worries he had are suddenly 
      forgotten.  Camera MOVES around behind her and we see that she literally is hot.   Her SPINE is 
      GLOWING RED just beneath her skin.  OFF this startling image, we... 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 


                                    END OF ACT ONE 
                                        ACT TWO 

      FADE IN: 

    In what will become a signature stylistic element of our series, we open this Act with a MULTIPLE 
      SPLIT SCREEN format.  We will see several different camera angles on and around the Viper as 
      well as an interior from Galactica.  The exact positioning of the splits and how many splits are on 
      screen at any one time will be an editorial decision, but we'll never have more than 5 at any one 
      time.  The individual splits are numbered for clarity of reference. 

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

      1 -- EXT. SPACE - VIPER COCKPIT POV 

      Our view is from a camera mounted just ABOVE the cockpit of a Viper fighter and our view is 
      straight ahead.  Up ahead we can see Galactica's stern coming into focus and at the very bottom 
    of the frame we can just make out the top of the cockpit canopy.  This is a FIXED CAMERA, 
      which neither pans nor zooms, and the frame constantly changes and moves as the Viper makes       minute course adjustments.   We HEAR the WIRELESS (our term for RADIO) transmissions 
      between Galactica and the pilot: 

                                  LEE (WIRELESS) 
                    Galactica/Viper Four-five-zero.  Beam acquisition lock. 

      2 -- INT. VIPER - COCKPIT CONSOLE POV 

      View from a tiny camera mounted in the DASHBOARD of the cockpit, looking straight at the 
      pilot's face, or in this case, at the reflective SHIELD which has been pulled down over his eyes.  
      We can see a portion of the starfield out the canopy behind him, but again this camera is FIXED. 

      3 -- INT. GALACTICA - PORT LANDING BAY 

      Looking out into space from the Galactica, we see the distant approaching Viper. 

      4 -- INT. GALACTICA - PORT LANDING CONTROL 

      A cramped cubicle barely big enough for the Landing Signal Officer (LSO), who is Captain Kelly -- 
      first seen giving his regards to Adama at the top of Act One.  The cubicle is dominated by a single 
      window which overlooks the vast LANDING BAY and it is from this vantage, that the LSO guides 
      incoming ships to a landing below.  Kelly WRITES on the WINDOW with a greasepen, keeping 
      track of various info on the landing planes.  Kelly wears a headset for communications, but there 
    are also several telephone handsets on the console before him.   

    At the moment, the cubicle is also crowded with the tour group seen earlier.  Doral, the tour 
      guide, is crammed into the hatch, explaining the operation to the group.   

                                  DORAL 
                    A logical question to ask is why in this day and age, do 
                    we have men and women in the cockpit at all?  Why not 
                    automate the Vipers or rely on unmanned missiles for 
                    defense? 

                                  KELLY 
                          (to mic) 
                    Viper Four-five-zero/Galactica.  Copy your acquisition 
                    lock.  Stand-by landing clearance. 

      2 -- The pilot pulls up his reflective shield, giving us a look at LEE ADAMA (30s). 

                                  LEE 
                    Standing by. 

      1 -- Galactica gets closer.  

      3 -- The Viper gets closer. 

      4 -- Kelly checks some controls. 

                                  DORAL 
                    The answer, of course, is that an automated Viper would 
                    be susceptible to possible jamming or cyber-attack.  
                    There's a saying in the Colonial fleet that you can jam 
                    every sensor except the human brain.                                   KELLY 
                          (clipped, rapid, to headset mic) 
                    Viper Four-five-zero/Galactica.  Approach port landing 
                    bay, hands-on, speed one zero five, checkers red, call 
                    the ball.  

                                  LEE (cont'd) 
                          (to mic) 
                    Galactica check that.  Did you say hands-on approach? 

                                  KELLY 
                    Viper Four-five-zero, that's affirmative.  Hands-on 
                    approach. 

                                  LEE 
                    Very well.  Port landing bay, hands-on, speed one zero 
                    five, checkers red, I have the ball. 

      2 -- Looking over the cockpit at the Galactica as the Viper begins heading in toward the port 
      landing bay. 

      3 -- From Galactica's landing bay, we see the Viper slide side to side as the pilot locks in on the 
      proper angle to make it inside the flight deck. 

      4 -- Kelly and the visitors crane for a look out the window as the Viper comes in for a landing. 

      2 -- Lee concentrates on his landing.  We can HEAR his breathing as his adrenaline surges. 

    2 & 3 -- The Viper TOUCHES DOWN on the deck, SKIDS for a moment, then comes to a STOP. 

      4 -- From the LSO station, we can see the Viper has stopped on a large RED CHECKERED 
      SQUARE, which is an elevator. 

                                  KELLY 
                    Viper Four-five-zero, skids down, mag-lock secure.  On 
                    behalf of everyone aboard Galactica, I'd like to welcome 
                    you aboard, Apollo.  It's an honor to have you with us. 

                                  LEE  
                    Thank you Galactica.   

      The elevator DESCENDS and with that we... 

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                    TO: 

      INT. GALACTICA - HANGAR BAY 

      An enormous, cavernous space where spacecraft are moved about and parked before and after 
      flight operations.  Various Vipers are parked in different configurations.  Large airlock doors run 
    the length of the bay and lead to launch tubes and interior doors which lead to the repair shops.   

      The elevator STOPS, and the Viper is immediately surrounded by a group of DECK HANDS, who 
      seem to be everywhere in this space.  They begin checking engines, attaching equipment, hoses,     etc.  Unlike the Viper seen in Act One, this model is state of the art and is sleeker and more 
      modern than Adama's old relic.   

      Chief Tyrol steps up on the wing just as the canopy slides OPEN.   The name on the side of the 
      fuselage reads:  CAPT. LEE ADAMA "APOLLO" and when the pilot removes his helmet, we get a 
      better look at Lee Adama, who is ruggedly handsome, with a lean frame and rangy looks.    

                                  TYROL 
                    Morning, sir.  Chief Tyrol, I'll be your crew chief while 
                    you're aboard. 

                                  LEE 
                    Morning, Chief.  Captain Lee Adama.   

      Tyrol takes his helmet, helps him climb out of the cockpit. 

                                  TYROL  
                    Real pleasure to meet you, sir.  I'm sure you've heard 
                    this before, but I'm a great admirer of your father's.   

                                  LEE 
                    Thanks. 

                                  TYROL 
                    The service is going to miss him when retires.  

                                  LEE 
                    I'm sure someone will.  Is your auto-landing system 
                    down?  I was hands-on for the whole approach. 

    It takes a beat for Tyrol to register Lee's casual dig at his father.  Tyrol's attitude noticeably cools. 

                                  TYROL 
                    They're all hands-on here, Captain.  No auto-landings on 
                    Galactica.  Commander Adama's orders.  

                                  LEE 
                    Figures.  Watch the rad buffers when you chock the 
                    burner.  These new Mark sevens run a little hotter than 
                    the ones you're used to. 

                                  TYROL 
                    Watch the rad buffers, yes sir. 

                                  SPEAKER VOICE 
                    Attention on the Port Hangar Deck, Raptor on final 
                    approach, clear red checkers. 

      INT. GALACTICA - LANDING CONTROL 

      Captain Kelly is unhappy.  Another ship is heading in, but this one is making an unsteady, herky-
      jerky approach. 

                                  KELLY                     Raptor Three-one-two/Galactica.  Watch your lateral 
                    attitude!  You're skidding, you're skidding! 

                                  SHARON (WIRELESS) 
                      Galactica/Raptor Three-one-two.  Understood.  I have 
                    the ball. 

      INT. GALACTICA - PORT LANDING BAY - DECK CAMERA 

      The camera picks up the ship as it careens into view and down toward the deck. 

      EXT. RAPTOR - OVERHEAD COCKPIT POV 

      A similar angle as that seen on the Viper, but now looking forward over the double side-by-side 
      cockpit of a RAPTOR.  The Hangar Deck TILTS dangerously to one side as we careen toward a 
      landing. 

      INT. GALACTICA - LANDING CONTROL 

      Kelly gives the Raptor a lot of "body English" as it finally straightens up at the absolute last 
      second and comes to a HARD and LOUD LANDING on the checkered square. 

                                  KELLY 
                          (relieved) 
                    Raptor Three-one-two, skids down, mag-lock secure.  
                    Welcome home, Boomer. 

                                  SHARON (WIRELESS) 
                    Thank you, Galactica. 

      INT. GALACTICA - HANGAR BAY 

      The elevator has just come to a stop with the Raptor on board.  The Raptor is larger than the 
      Viper and it's a scout/electronics platform, loaded with sensors instead of weapons.  The rear 
      engines are also twice the size of the more sleek and nimble fighters.  There's a two-man cockpit 
      where pilot & co-pilot sit side-by-side and room for about five others deeper inside the ship.  The 
      writing on the fuselage reads:  LT. SHARON VALERII "BOOMER" 

      Tyrol steps up on the wing as the canopy opens to reveal SHARON VALERII and her co-pilot, 
      HELO.  Sharon is in her early twenties and not long out of flight school.  She's the squadron 
      rookie, and it shows -- she's less sure of herself than the other pilots, more vulnerable.  Helo is a 
      couple years older, with a perpetual tan and athletic build. 

                                  TYROL 
                          (sour) 
                    I think they heard that landing clear up to the bridge, 
                    Lieutenant. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Yeah, I'm gonna catch hell from the LSO.  But it wasn't 
                    entirely my fault, Chief... 
                          (climbing down) 
                    ... the primary gymbal's acting up again. 

                                  TYROL                     Uh, huh. 

                                  SHARON 
                          (to co-pilot) 
                    Helo, am I lying? 

                                  HELO 
                          (writing on a checklist) 
                    Gymbal looked bad to me. 

    As the Deck Hands swarm over the Raptor, Tyrol and Sharon walk toward one of the side exits.  
      Helo stays in the cockpit, going over some paperwork on the flight. 

                                  TYROL 
                    I've pulled that gymbal three times and stripped it twice.  
                    There's nothing wrong with it, sir. 

      [Yes, both men and women in Galactica's world are referred to as "sir.] 

      INT. GALACTICA - REPAIR BAY - SECONDS LATER  

      Tyrol and Sharon walk through the Repair Bay seen earlier.  Tyrol's crew -- Cally, Prosna plus 
      another 5 ND Deck Hands -- barely look up from their work as the two pass. 

                                  TYROL 
                    ... and I listen very closely to what each and every pilot 
                    has to say about their ship.  Even the rooks. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Okay, so I'm a rook.  You're not the one out there trying 
                    to bring fifty tons of Raptor onto a moving hangar deck 
                    with a bad gymbal... 

                                  TYROL 
                          (overlapping) 
                    I've got ten years experience -- 

                                  SHARON 
                    Here we go.   

                                  TYROL 
                    -- breaking down and stripping every component in every 
                    -- 

      They walk through the bay and into... 

      INT. GALACTICA - TOOL ROOM - CONTINUOUS 

      A small walk-in storage locker crammed with tools.   

                                  TYROL 
                    -- system that's ever been installed in every spacecraft 
                    on my hangar deck. 

                                  SHARON                     -- system that's ever been installed in every spacecraft 
                    on my hangar deck. 

      They stop and stare at each other, toe to toe as the hatch swings shut behind them.  There's a 
      beat... 

      And then they fall into each other's arms.  Deeply passionate, hungry kisses of two forbidden 
      lovers who have to grab every moment they can.   

                                  SHARON 
                    That gymbal is broken... 

                                  TYROL 
                    Shut up. 
                          (beat) 
                    Sir. 

    As they continue their embrace... 

      INT. REPAIR BAY 

      Socinus ENTERS from the Hangar Bay, carrying a heavy tool kit.  He heads for the Tool Room. 

                                  CALLY 
                    Not so fast.  The groping lamp is on in the tool shed. 

                                  SOCINUS 
                    Frak me. 

                                  CALLY 
                    Do I have to? 

                                  SOCINUS 
                    This is outta control.  The chief lost his mind or 
                    something? 

                                  CALLY 
                    None of our business. 

                                  PROSNA 
                          (sarcastic) 
                    Yeah.  He's just sleeping with the division officer.  What's 
                    wrong with that? 

      There's a lot wrong with it, and the feeling is shared by all of them, even Cally. 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA & TRANSPORT  

      The Transport ship seen in Act One maneuvers in for a docking with Galactica. 

      INT. GALACTICA - AIRLOCK/PASSAGEWAY 

      Two DECK HANDS open the large airlock HATCH just as the interior hatch is opened by 
      someone aboard the Transport.  Laura and Billy are first through the airlock.  Doral, the tour guide 
    is here waiting for them.                                   DORAL 
                    Secretary Roslin, Mister Keikeya?  My name is Aaron 
                    Doral, I'm from Public Relations and I'd like to welcome 
                    you aboard Galactica.  If you'll follow me, I'll show you to 
                    your quarters. 

      They follow Doral as he heads down the passageway.  Laura hates it here, tries not to show it.  
    Billy is loving every minute of this -- looking around and taking it all in. 

                                  LAURA 
                    Is there a revised schedule for the retirement ceremony? 

                                  DORAL 
                    Oh -- they really hate that word around here.  People are 
                    retired, ships are decommissioned...  

      Doral heads down the ladder just as three dirty and sweaty FEMALE DECK HANDS come down 
    the passageway.  Billy gets out of the way, lets them pass, gets a quick smile from one.  He 
      lingers a bit, watching her go.  Laura & Doral keep going. 

      BILLY 

      turns around -- they're gone.  He's in the middle of an intersection and is completely and totally 
      lost. 

                                  BILLY 
                    Hello...?  Madame Secretary...? 

      Shit.  He tries to orient himself, walks down the passageway -- dead end.  He goes down another 
      Passageway.  Tries to open a hatch -- locked.  He wanders down yet another passageway, 
      OPENS a Hatch.  

      INT. GALACTICA - ENLISTED HEAD 

    Billy is surprised to find himself looking at the woman who smiled at him just a few minutes ago.  
      She's half-naked, standing in front of a sink, brushing her teeth, hair up, wearing a bra with her 
      jumpsuit rolled down around her waist.  Her name is DUALLA (19) and she glances up at him. 

                                  DUALLA 
                    In or out. 

                                  BILLY 
                    What? 

                                  DUALLA 
                          (spits) 
                    Get in or get out, but shut the hatch. 

                                  BILLY 
                          (steps in, closes hatch) 
                    Uh, sorry...  

      Prosna, wearing a towel, comes out of one of a private shower stall, carrying a shaving kit.  He 
      goes to another metal sinks and begins to shave.  Neither he nor Dualla think anything of it.                                    DUALLA 
                    Lost? 

                                  BILLY  
                    Yeah. 

                                  DUALLA 
                    Where you going? 

                                  BILLY 
                    Uh... visitor's quarters.  I'm a visitor. 

                                  PROSNA 
                    Really?  Never woulda guessed. 

      Cally ENTERS and goes to one of the toilet stalls and shuts the door behind her.  Dualla notes 
      Billy's reaction. 

                                  DUALLA  
                    Never been in a unisex head before? 

                                  BILLY 
                    A unisex what...? 

                                  PROSNA 
                    Head.  Bathroom. 

                                  BILLY 
                    Oh.  No, not really. 

                                  DUALLA 
                    If you've living on a warship, the first rule is there's not 
                    much privacy, so don't get your panties in a bunch at 
                    what you might see.  Second rule, is don't stare. 

    Billy suddenly realizes that's what he's doing, and quickly looks at something else. 

                                  BILLY 
                    Sorry. 

                                  DUALLA  
                    Don't worry, visitors usually don't have to share facilities 
                    like the rest of us. 

      She zips up her jumpsuit and heads back out the hatch. 

                                  DUALLA (cont'd) 
                    C'mon.  Let's find your home. 

      INT. GALACTICA - PASSAGEWAY - CONTINUOUS 

      Dualla leads Billy down the passageway. 

                                  DUALLA 
                    What's your name?                                   BILLY 
                    Billy. 

                                  DUALLA 
                    I'm Petty Officer Second, Dualla. 

                                  BILLY 
                    Hi... Petty Second, uh...? 

                                  DUALLA 
                    You can call me D. 

                                  BILLY 
                    Thanks. 

      And Billy is already attracted to her. 

      INT. GALACTICA - ADAMA'S STATEROOM 

      Adama may have the largest stateroom aboard Galactica, and the only one with its own 
      bathroom, but it still feels cramped.  A single bed, a desk, a couple of chairs and that's about it.  
      The walls have a minimum of ornamentation, favoring photos of ships and fighters from Adama's 
      years of service.  There is a small porthole window. 

    At the moment, Colonel Tigh is standing before the desk, wearing his rumpled uniform from the 
      night before.   He's also wearing a nasty looking BRUISE on his slightly swollen jaw.  Adama 
      comes out of the bathroom, tucking in his uniform.  He and Tigh are friends, go way back.  
      Adama sips the coffee, makes a face. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    So you gonna press charges against Starbuck?  Ask for 
                    a court? 

                                  TIGH 
                    Hell, no.  I revoked her flight status, that's enough.  Just 
                    a friendly game that got outta hand.   

                                  ADAMA  
                    Heard you were drunk. 

                                  TIGH 
                    I had a drink.  I wasn't on duty. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Been drinking a lot lately. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Maybe. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    This have anything to do with...? 

                                  TIGH                     My wife?  Why just because she's sleeping with half the 
                    population of Geminon while I'm away.  Nah, doesn't 
                    have anything to do with her. 

      Adama sips his coffee for a beat. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Well, I doubt Starbuck's gonna ask for a court either.  
                    Lucky for you, considering your record.   

                                  TIGH  
                    Doesn't matter.  I'm getting out anyway. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    There a chance you'll change your mind?   The Fleet 
                    needs men like you, Paul. 

                                  TIGH  
                    Like hell.  You're the only sonuvabitch in the whole fleet 
                    dumb enough to want me as XO. 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (wry) 
                    Now you see why they're putting me out to pasture. 

                                  TIGH 
                    I did wonder. 

      The two old friends share a brief smile, then Adama takes a deep breath.  

                                  ADAMA  
                    All right.  Ceremony's at fourteen hundred.  Be there on 
                    time, in a fresh uniform and clean shaven. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Yes, sir. 

      Adama nods, the meeting over.  Tigh heads for the door, then pauses.  

                                  TIGH (cont'd) 
                    Has Lee reported aboard yet? 

      Adama doesn't answer for a long moment. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Three hours ago. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Maybe you should... 

                                  ADAMA 
                    He'll contact me when he's ready. 

      Tigh accepts that as the final word on the subject and EXITS, but Adama clearly is still thinking 
      about his son.       INT. GALACTICA - SQUADRON READY ROOM 

      Kara ENTERS the Ready Room, which is crowded with PILOTS standing around talking, writing 
      reports, comparing notes on flight maneuvers, etc.  The Ready Room is both a briefing room and 
      hang-out for the Pilots.  There are several such rooms aboard Galactica.  The decor should 
      feature insignia and plaques from peactime competitions as well as CYLON PHOTOS and 
      DRAWINGS from the war long past.   

      Heads turn at Kara's entrance. She's not supposed to be here.  The Commander of the Air Group 
      (CAG) a ramrod-straight recruiting poster come to life looks up from his clipboard. 

                                  CAG 
                    What're you doing here, Starbuck? 

                                  KARA 
                    I'm still a pilot, right?  This is the pilot's ready room, 
                    right? 

      She blows past him.  The insolence doesn't go unnoticed by the CAG, but he decides it's not 
      worth a confrontation and goes back to reviewing the flight plan as Kara plops herself down in 
      one of the high-backed chairs, one leg hooked over the armrest. 

                                  CAG 
                    Okay, people let's get started... 

      The pilots begin to take their seats.  Kara studiously avoids eye contact as they mill around her.  
      Then she sees him -- Lee Adama ENTERS the room and looks for a seat.  Kara sits up, her surly 
      attitude replaced by something else.  Just before Lee settles in, he sees Kara.  Smiles in 
      recognition.  She smiles back.  They know each other.  They like each other. 

                                  CAG (cont'd) 
                    Good morning. 

                                  ALL 
                    Morning, sir. 

                                  CAG 
                    All right.  Today is the main event.  Formation 
                      demonstration and fly-by maneuvers in conjunction with 
                    the decommissioning ceremony. 
                          (opens folder) 
                    A few changes to the flight plan.  Lieutenant Thrace will 
                    be replaced in the slot by Lieutenant Anders.  

      Lee throws a curious glance at Kara, but she's unfazed by the announcement. 

                                  CAG (cont'd) 
                    Captain Lee Adama has joined us and will be flying lead 
                    during the fly-by.  Welcome Captain. 

      APPLAUSE.  The pilots are stoked.  Lee gives a sheepish wave.  He's uncomfortable with the 
      attention, but willing to play along to get this over with. 

                                  CAG (cont'd) 
                          (to Lee)                     And thanks to Chief Tyrol and his deck gang, you'll have 
                    the honor of flying the actual Viper that your father flew 
                    almost forty years ago. 

      Everyone looks at Lee to see his presumably happy reaction.  He's less than pleased, but tries to 
    gin up a smile. 

                                  LEE 
                    Oh.  Great.  That's... quite an honor. 

      The CAG raises an eyebrow, but doesn't pursue it. 

                                  CAG  
                    Yes, it is.  Launch operations will begin at 1125 hours.... 

      INT. PASSAGEWAYS/GANGWAYS 

      Adama, Laura and Doral are walking through the passageways, Laura trying not to trip over hatch 
      coamings or fall down gangways and Doral trying to play peacemaker. 

                                  LAURA 
                    I don't get it.  We're talking about a visitor's guide.   

                                  ADAMA 
                    The answer's no. 

                                  DORAL 
                    I'm sure there's a way to work this out... 

                                  LAURA 
                    It tells people things like where the restroom is.  Or 
                    what's the lunch special in the cafeteria.  Or how do I 
                    buy a Galactica t-shirt. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    I don't care what it does.  It's an integrated computer 
                    network and I won't have it on this ship. 

                                  LAURA 
                    You're one of those people?  You're actually afraid of 
                    computers?   

                                  ADAMA 
                    I'm not afraid of computers.  There are computers on this 
                    ship right now, but none of them are networked together. 

                                  LAURA 
                    I don't think you understand.  The computer network will 
                    make it faster and easier for teachers to teach their 
                    students about this ship and -- 

      Adama turns on her suddenly. 

                                   ADAMA                     Madame Secretary, I don't think you understand.  Good 
                    men and women died on this ship because someone 
                    wanted a faster computer to make  life easier.  So I'm 
                    sorry if I'm inconveniencing you and your teachers, but 
                    I'll be damned if I'm going to let you or anyone else put a 
                    computer network on this ship while I'm in command.  
                    Now, is that clear? 

      Laura wasn't expecting that.  She's back on her heels, caught off-guard by the authoritarian tone 
    of command. 

                                  LAURA 
                    Yes... Sir? 

      Adama gives her a curt nod and then disappears up a gangway.  She watches him go with 
      astonishment that is slowly turning to embarrassment and anger.  Billy and Dualla arrive from an 
      adjacent Passageway. 

                                  LAURA (cont'd) 
                    Where the hell have you been? 

                                  BILLY 
                    Sorry.  I got turned around back -- 

                                  LAURA  
                    Did you hear any of that? 

                                  BILLY 
                    Uh... no... 

                                  LAURA 
                    Good. 

      And just like that, she turns on her heel and heads off.  Billy scrambles to catch up.  Dualla and 
      Doral trade looks. 

                                  DORAL 
                          (shrugs) 
                    Bureaucrats. 

      INT. READY ROOM   

      The briefing is just breaking up.  The Pilots are heading out.  Lee makes his way to Kara.  The 
      conversation is that of two people who may or may not have feelings for one another, but haven't 
      seen each other for a long time and aren't about to give it away.  It's awkward.   

                                  LEE 
                    Hey. 

                                  KARA 
                    Hey, Lee.  How long's it been? 

                                  LEE  
                    Two years.  Not since the...                                   KARA 
                    Funeral.  Yeah. 

      An uncomfortable topic.  Lee looks for another.  

                                  LEE  
                    So... what happened with you flying slot? 

                                  KARA 
                    I'm grounded.  Striking a superior asshole. 

                                  LEE 
                    You serious?  Who? 

                                  KARA 
                    The XO.   

      Lee can't help but grin and shake his head. 

                                  KARA (cont'd) 
                    Go ahead.  Say it.  "Same old Kara." 

                                  LEE 
                    I wasn't going to say that. 

                                  KARA 
                    You thought it. 

                                  LEE 
                    No, I was going to say what Zak always said which 
                    was... 

      The name touches a nerve in them both.  Their grins evaporate at the same moment. 

                                  LEE (cont'd) 
                    Sorry. 

      Now Kara hunts for another topic.  

                                  KARA  
                    Seen the Old Man yet? 

                                  LEE 
                    No. 

                                  KARA 
                    But you're going to, right? 

                                  LEE 
                    Not if I can help it. 

      Her whole attitude suddenly hardens.  This is an old argument.   

                                  KARA 
                    Frak...                                    LEE 
                    Kara, don't even start... 

                                  KARA 
                    He's lost one son already, he shouldn't have to lose two. 

                                  LEE 
                    Hey -- he's the one responsible for what happened to -- 

                                  KARA 
                    No he's not.  Okay?  I was there, you weren't, and what 
                    happened to Zak was an accident.  That's it. 

                                  LEE 
                    He got to you.  I can't believe it.  He actually got to you. 

                                  KARA 
                    Look, when Zak died, I lost it.  Okay?  I was done.  
                    Probably would've ended up back in Picon driving a 
                    truck.  The Old Man brought me here, said go be a pilot.  
                    Put me back on my feet. 

                                  LEE 
                    I'm not looking for a fight with you, Kara. 

                                  KARA  
                    You go up against Commander Adama, you've got one 
                    anyway. 

      Now Lee's temper flares. 

                                  LEE 
                    And Zak actually wanted to marry you.  Now here you 
                    are siding with the man who basically killed him. 

                                  KARA 
                    You should go.  I'm getting the urge to hit another 
                    superior asshole. 

    He looks at her for a moment, then just walks away.  We stay with Kara long enough to see that 
      beneath that flash of anger lies both lingering pain and deep regret... 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 


                                    END OF ACT TWO 
                                        ACT THREE 

      FADE IN: 

      INT. WARDROOM  

      The Wardroom serves as conference room, dining room, and informal lounge for Galactica's 
      senior officers.  A few mementoes on the walls, a Colonial FLAG, a long table, a few other pieces 
    of furniture.          Adama, wearing a DRESS UNIFORM, is waiting, along with Doral and a PHOTOGRAPHER (the 
      camera should be recognizable as such, but not a contemporary Nikkon or something).  Doral 
      clears his throat.  The photographer shuffles his feet.  Adama glances at the chronometer on the 
      bulkhead. 

      Finally Lee ENTERS the Wardroom, also wearing a dress uniform.  Adama and Lee look at each 
      other awkwardly for a beat, neither one enjoying this. 

                                  DORAL  
                    Okay, gentlemen if you'll stand a little closer... 
                    Commander could I get you to put your arm around your 
                    son...? 

      The Adamas do as they're told, and maybe somewhere in this is at least one photo that will work 
    as a happy family reunion. 

                                  DORAL (cont'd) 
                    Great.  Perfect.  Thank you so much.  See you at the 
                    ceremony. 

      Doral and the Photographer EXIT. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Can I get you anything?  We make a truly awful cup of 
                    coffee. 

                                  LEE 
                    No.  Thank you, sir. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    Have a seat. 

      Adama sits, Lee pointedly doesn't. 

                                  ADAMA (cont'd) 
                    Congratulations on making Captain.  

                                  LEE 
                    Thank you, sir. 

      Silence. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    How's your mother? 

                                  LEE 
                    Getting married. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Good for her.  We talked, you know.  About a year ago, 
                    we sorta had a heart to heart about a lot of things... 

                                  LEE 
                    I'm glad to hear that, sir.  Will that be all...?        Lee's keeping this proper and respectful, but Adama can see the anger and pain in his son's 
      eyes. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Damnit Lee, talk to me.   

                                  LEE 
                    What do you want to talk about, sir?   

                                  ADAMA 
                    Anything.  Just... drop that cadet crap and say 
                    something. 

                                  LEE 
                    I don't have anything to say.  My orders said report here 
                    and participate in the ceremony, so I'm here.  That's it.  
                    Wasn't anything in my orders about having a heart to 
                    heart chat with the old man. 

      Adama's own pain and anger aren't far below the surface. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    You know... the things you said to me at the funeral--   

                                  LEE 
                    I really don't want to get into this... 

                                  ADAMA 
                    --you still feel that way? 

                                  LEE 
                          (hard) 
                    Goddamn right I still feel that way.  Goddamn right I do. 

      A charged moment between the two men. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    It was an accident, Lee.  An accident. 

                                  LEE 
                    So you say.  I disagree. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    I didn't force Zak into flight school.  It was what he 
                    wanted to do. 

                                  LEE  
                    Like he had a choice.   

                                  ADAMA 
                    Of course he had a choice.  You both did. 

                                  LEE 
                    Now, that's funny.                                     ADAMA 
                    You could've been anything you wanted to be.  I 
                    would've been proud -- 

                                  LEE 
                    "A man isn't a man until he wears the uniform of his 
                    colony."   

                                  ADAMA 
                    I was trying to teach you something about duty and -- 

                                  LEE 
                    Oh, you taught us.  You taught us so well we were trying 
                    on uniforms before we were out of grade school.  Except 
                    one of us wasn't cut out to wear the uniform.  Wasn't cut 
                    out to be a pilot.  One of us wouldn't have even gotten 
                    into flight school if his father hadn't pulled strings to-- 

                                  ADAMA  
                    I didn't pull strings!  

                                  LEE 
                    You didn't call your buddy Commander Erdwell on the 
                    board? 

                                  ADAMA 
                    That's different... 

                                  LEE 
                          (losing it) 
                    When are you going to take responsibility for this!  Zak 
                    didn't belong in uniform and he sure as hell didn't belong 
                    in that plane!  Face it, you killed him just as if you--  

      Too far.  Lee tries to bite off the vicious, angry accusation, but it's too late.  The words hit Adama 
      like a physical slap in the face.  He's on his feet and there's a moment such charged tension, that 
      we're not sure what's going to happen next.  Finally... 

                                  ADAMA  
                    You can go now... Captain. 

      Lee heads for the door.  Adama sits back down.  Almost falls into the chair.  Alone with his grief 
    for one son and his pain for the other.  For the first time, Adama genuinely seems old. 

      INT. PASSAGEWAY 

      Lee pauses outside the door.  He's already beginning to regret saying that.  But it's too late to 
      take it back now.  He heads off down the passageway.   

      EXT. KOBOL - CAPRICA CITY - RIVER - NIGHT 

    On the bank of a RIVER flowing through the middle of the city, Baltar and the beautiful dark-
      haired Woman stand next to the rail.  It's an idyllic romantic scene as they watch the light 
      reflecting off the water... vendors selling trinkets from their stands... music wafting out of shops 
      and cafes.                                     BALTAR 
                    It may interest you to know that the final results of my 
                    CNP project were in this afternoon -- it's working at close 
                    to 95% efficiency throughout the entire Fleet.  Hold your 
                    applause, please. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    What, no applause for me?  I doubt you would've ever 
                    completed the project in the first place without me. 

                                  BALTAR  
                    Well, you helped, yes, but... 

                                  WOMAN 
                    I did more than help.  I rewrote half your algorithms and 
                    saved your project. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Okay, okay.  Let's not get crazy.  You were... extremely 
                    helpful.   But you got something out of it.  I let you poke 
                    around inside the Defense mainframe -- breaking about 
                    twenty statutes in the process, I might add -- and now 
                    your company will have a huge advantage for the next 
                    defense contract. 

                                  WOMAN  
                    That's not why I did it.  I helped you because I love you.  
                    Besides, God wanted me to help you. 

                                  BALTAR 
                          (uncomfortable) 
                    Right.  He... spoke to you. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    He didn't speak to me in a literal voice and you don't 
                    have to mock my faith.   

                                  BALTAR 
                    I'm not. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    I pray for guidance and try to listen for God's wishes in 
                    my heart.  Anything wrong with that? 

                                  BALTAR 
                    No.  Of course not.  I'm just... not very religious. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Does it bother you that I am? 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Honestly?  It puzzles me.  You're an intelligent, attractive 
                    woman. How you can be taken in by a bunch of 
                    mysticism and superstition is beyond me.  But I'm willing 
                    to overlook it because of your other... attributes.     He gives her a lascivious once-over. 

                                  WOMAN  
                    You are the very definition of a sinner. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Guilty as charged.   

    He moves to kiss her, but she turns her head. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    I have to go.  I'm meeting someone. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Really.  Who is he?  I'm insanely jealous. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    I doubt that.   

                                  BALTAR 
                    So touchy tonight.  Well, I'm meeting someone too -- 
                    business.  New project at Defense I might do.  Anyway -- 
                    call you tomorrow.  'Bye. 

    He gives her a quick kiss on the cheek and heads off.  She watches him go with an enigmatic, 
      thoughtful expression.  Then she hears something -- turns, reacts to someone o.c. 

                                  WOMAN  
                    It's about time.  I wondered when you'd get here.   

      CLOSE ON A CYLON 

      Right out of the 1970's show.  Red-eyed visor, chrome body suit, the whole thing.   

                                  ELOSHA 
                          (prelap) 
                    ... with humility and piety we ask for your blessing, oh 
                    Lords of Kobol... 

      REVEAL:  

      INT. GALACTICA - STARBOARD HANGAR DECK - MUSEUM 

      A redress of the Port hangar deck, this is the exact same facility with one major exception -- it has 
      been converted into a MUSEUM.  There are glass-encased DISPLAYS scattered throughout the 
      room and one of them contains the Cylon we just saw.  Signage in the Cylon case tells us it's a 
      "Soldier Prototype" developed by the Colonials some 50 years ago, etc.  There are a DOZEN or 
    so other CYLONS in various display cases, along with drawings, photos, etc.   

      Several old-style VIPERS are scattered throughout the enormous space, each protected by 
      velvet ropes and bearing large informational signage.  A LARGE CROWD is in attendance.   

      ELOSHA (80) a wizened priest, is at the podium, while the assembled crowd bows its head in 
      prayer.                                   ELOSHA 
                    ... and thank you for the protection of ships like this and 
                    the brave men and women who manned them. 

      The prayer over, Elosha goes back to his seat as Doral heads to the podium. 

                                  DORAL 
                    Thank you, Councilmember.  I think it's worth noting that 
                    Elosha has now served on the Quorum of Twelve for 
                    over fifty years and is the longest serving member of the 
                    Council. 

      Polite, vaguely bored APPLAUSE.  People just going through the motions in the audience. 

                                  DORAL (cont'd) 
                    And now it is my great pleasure to introduce the last 
                      commander of the battlestar Galactica... Commander 
                    Adama. 

      APPLAUSE.  Adama slowly takes the podium. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    The Cylon War is long over.  Yet we must not forget the 
                    reasons why so many were asked to sacrifice so much 
                    in the cause of freedom.   

      EXT. SPACE - VIPER FORMATION 

      The ceremonial squadron is circling in formation at a distance from Galactica. 

                                  ADAMA (WIRELESS) 
                    The values we fought for are still worth preserving today.   

      INT. LEE'S VIPER - CONSOLE POV 

      Where Lee is monitoring the speech. 

                                  ADAMA (WIRELESS) 
                    The cost of wearing the uniform can be high, but... 

      INT. GALACTICA - STARBOARD HANGAR DECK - MUSEUM 

      Adama falters.  He looks out over the crowd, the encounter with Lee still fresh in his mind.  He 
      stands there for a long beat.  Glances go around the audience.  People start wondering what's 
      going on. 

      INT. LEE'S VIPER - CONSOLE POV 

      Lee wonders where this is going as well. 

      INT. GALACTICA - STARBOARD HANGAR DECK - MUSEUM 

      Adama at the podium. 

                                  ADAMA                      Sometimes it's too high. 
                          (beat) 
                    You know... we fought the Cylons to save ourselves from 
                    extinction, but we never answered the question... why?  
                    Why are we as a people worth saving?   
                          (beat) 
                    Look at us.  We tell ourselves we're noble, intelligent 
                    creatures.  Children of the Lords of Kobol.  But we'll still 
                    let people go to bed hungry because it costs too much to 
                    feed the poor... we still commit murder for greed or spite 
                    or jealousy...  

      INT. LEE'S VIPER - CONSOLE POV 

      Lee listens intently. 

                                  ADAMA (WIRELESS) 
                    ... and we visit all of our sins upon our children.  We 
                    refuse to take responsibility for what we've done. 

      INT. GALACTICA - STARBOARD HANGAR DECK - MUSEUM 

      Like a harbinger of doom, the CYLON in the display looms menacingly in the f.g., while Adama 
      continues at the podium.   

                                  ADAMA  
                    Like we did with the Cylons.  We decided to play god.  
                    Create life.  And when that life turned against us, we 
                    comforted ourselves in the knowledge that it wasn't 
                    really our fault, not really.  It was the Cylons that were 
                    flawed. 
                          (beat) 
                    But the truth is... we're the flawed creation.  We're the 
                    ones that tried to manufacture life and make it serve us.    
                          (beat) 
                    But you don't play God and then wipe your hands of 
                    what you've created.  Sooner or later... the day comes 
                    when you can't hide from what you've done anymore.    
                          (beat) 
                    A day of reckoning. 

    He walks off the podium and sits down to the deafening silence of the crowd.  HOLD for a 
      moment in the utterly silent and still room.   

      Doral finally takes the podium, clears his throat. 

                                  DORAL 
                    Thank you, Commander Adama for those... inspiring 
                    words. 

      ADAMA & TIGH 

      Sitting next to each other.  Tigh leans over. 

                                  TIGH                           (sotto) 
                    You are one surprising sonuvabitch. 

                                  DORAL 
                    Next, uh... Ah.  Next is a ceremonial flyby by the last 
                    Galactica Squadron, led by Captain Lee Adama.  If I 
                    could direct your attention to the view port... 

      The audience turns in time to see a BLAST SHIELD slowly sliding away to reveal an enormous 
      WINDOW looking directly out into space, where the Galactica fly-by SQUADRON comes hurtling 
      toward the ship in a tight, precise formation.  The Vipers roll and break off in different directions 
      right on cue, leaving only Lee's Viper racing directly toward the ship as if on a collision course.  

      EXT. SPACE - LEE'S VIPER - OVERHEAD COCKPIT POV 

      The massive bulk of the Galactica looms directly before us.   

      INT. LEE'S VIPER - CONSOLE POV 

      Lee waits... then yanks the control yoke hard over... 

      INT. GALACTICA - STARBOARD HANGAR DECK - MUSEUM 

    In the back of crowd, away from prying eyes, Kara Thrace is watching the fly-by of her squadron.  
      She watches them intently, her heart in her throat as her squadronmates go through the 
      manuevers without her. 

                                  KARA 
                          (low) 
                    That's it... hard-over... then back... watch your interval, 
                    Jolly... c'mon guys... you got it... 

      EXT. SPACE - LEE'S VIPER - CHASE CAMERA POV 

      Shooting hand-held from our imaginary camera platform, we follow Lee's Viper as it spins and 
    rolls before executing a perfect recovery and roaring over the Galactica. 

                                  LEE (WIRELESS) 
                    This is Apollo.  I'm clear. 

      EXT. SPACE - SHARON'S RAPTOR - WING CAM POV 

      From a fixed camera mounted on one of the wings of the massive RAPTOR, we're looking in at 
    the canopy, where the heads of Sharon and Helo are sitting in the cockpit. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                    Boomer, you're on.  Take'em in. 

      INT. SHARON'S RAPTOR - CONSOLE POV 

      Looking up at Sharon and Helo in the cockpit. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Copy that.  Squadron form up on me.       INT. GALACTICA - STARBOARD HANGAR DECK - MUSEUM 

      Still looking out the window.  The ENTIRE Galactica SQUADRON comes into view in a majestic, 
      slow fly-by.  Sharon's single RAPTOR leads all 20 VIPERS past the window trailing EXHAUST 
      flames in a glorious, martial image.  Lee's Viper swoops in from somewhere above and takes its 
      position in the coveted lead position. 

      They blaze away into the stars and the entire crowd bursts into sustained, genuine APPLAUSE. 

      ON KARA 

      Applauding along with the rest.  Her eyes are a little misty.  She wipes them quickly, glances 
      around -- no one saw that did they?  She keeps applauding with pride. 

      EXT. KOBOL - CAPRICA CITY - DAWN 

      The sun is just starting to creep up over the horizon.  Not a beautiful, glorious morning, just an 
      average day: 

      SHOP KEEPERS open up their stores... 

      POLICEMEN take a report at a crime scene... 

        CONSTRUCTION WORKERS setting up their equipment... 

      A MAN jogging down by the river... 

      INT. BALTAR'S APARTMENT - DAWN 

      Baltar is asleep in bed.  A gorgeous platinum BLONDE WOMAN in bed next to him.  REVEAL the 
      dark-haired Woman sitting in a chair, watching the two of them sleep.  Her eyes flick to the 
      CLOCK on the nightstand.  She's waiting for something.  Finally the clock clicks over:  5:00.   

                                  WOMAN 
                    Gaius. 

    He bolts up.  The Blonde sits up, yanks the sheets up in surprise.   

                                  BALTAR 
                    What are you doing here? 

                                  BLONDE WOMAN 
                    Who the hell are you! 

                                  WOMAN 
                          (to Blonde) 
                    Get out. 

                                  BLONDE WOMAN 
                    Gaius, who is this woman? 

                                  BALTAR 
                    A friend -- well, more than a friend, but-- 

                                  WOMAN                           (to Blonde) 
                    Get  --  out. 

      The Blonde almost throws back a rejoinder, then sees something in the other woman's eyes that 
      makes her think better of it. 

                                  BLONDE WOMAN 
                    This is just great. 

      She grabs her clothes and storms out of the room. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    'bye. 

      A beat as Baltar decides on a strategy.  Opts to throw himself on the mercy of the court. 

                                  BALTAR (cont'd) 
                    It's me.  I'm screwed up.  Always have been.  It's a flaw 
                    in my character that I've always hated and tried to 
                    overcome, but-- 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Spare me your feigned self-awareness and remorse.  I 
                    came here because I have something to tell you. 

      Baltar is more than happy to change the subject. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Oh.  Okay.  I'm listening. 

      The Woman gets up and goes to the window, looks out at the first hints of daylight touching the 
      city. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Consider for a moment the relationship of a child to its 
                    parent.   

                                  BALTAR  
                    Philosophy.  At... five in the morning. 

      She throws him a look and he backpedals fast. 

                                  BALTAR (cont'd) 
                    Which is fine.  Great.  Fine.  Absolutely. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Children are born to replace their parents.  That is God's 
                    plan.  God plans the death of one's parents to be a 
                    critical component of a child's development into 
                    adulthood. 

                                  BALTAR 
                          (trying to be light) 
                    Nothing worse than parents that hang around too long.  
                    Mine certainly did.       Another withering look.   

                                  BALTAR (cont'd) 
                    Sorry. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    God wants children to grow and develop on their own.  
                    He wants them to reach their full potential.  And so it is 
                    that parents must die. 
                          (beat) 
                    But parents who stand in the way of God's plan, who 
                    defy his will... they must be struck down.   

      The hairs on the back of his neck are starting rise.  Where the hell is this going...? 

                                  BALTAR 
                    What's going on...? 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Humanity's children are returning home.   
                          (beat) 
                    Today. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP 

      Laura and Billy are in their seats in the passenger cabin.  Laura stares out the window at 
      Galactica. 

                                  VOICE 
                          (over speakers) 
                    Ladies and Gentlemen, the airlock is secured, we're 
                    pulling away from Galactica now and about to begin our 
                    flight back to Kobol... 

      EXT. LEE'S VIPER - OVERHEAD COCKPIT POV 

    Out in front of the (old) Viper, we see the Transport as it pulls away from Galactica. 

                                  LEE (WIRELESS) 
                    Colonial Heavy 798, this is Viper 105.  My callsign is 
                    Apollo and I'll be your escort back to Kobol. 

      EXT. SPACE - VIPER & TRANSPORT - CHASE CAMERA POV 

      The Viper takes position alongside the transport as they both head away from Galactica. 

                                  WIRELESS VOICE 
                    Copy that Viper 105.  Glad to have you with us, Apollo.  
                    We'll do our best to make it an uneventful trip. 

    In the b.g., the entire Galactica SQUADRON comes into view, with Sharon's Raptor in the lead. 

                                  SHARON (WIRELESS) 
                    Viper 105/Raptor 238.  This is Boomer, just wanted to 
                    say it was an honor to fly with you, Apollo.                                     LEE (WIRELESS) 
                    Copy that, Boomer.  The feeling is mutual.  You heading 
                    back to Kobol? 

                                  SHARON (WIRELESS) 
                    Yes, sir.  Back to Kobol and reassignment. 

                                  LEE (WIRELESS) 
                    Hope our paths meet up again someday, Boomer. 

                                  SHARON (WIRELESS) 
                    Copy that sir.  Safe journey. 

      The Galactica Squadron pulls away from Lee and the Transport and heads off into space. 

      INT. GALACTICA - PASSAGEWAY 

      Adama and Kara, now in regular uniforms, walk down the passageway together.  Their 
      relationship is warm, easy -- like father and daughter. 

                                  KARA 
                    Staff duty?  Hell with that, Old Man.  I want to keep 
                    flying. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    You've done a lot of flying.  You need a little staff duty on 
                    your resume.  Besides... 

      Adama trails off, something else on his mind.  She looks at him curiously. 

                                  ADAMA (cont'd) 
                    Kara... about Zak...?  Yes or no -- was he cut out to be a 
                    pilot or not? 

                                  KARA 
                          (stiffens) 
                    He was good.  Okay?  I taught basic flight.  And I passed 
                    him.  So he must've had something on the ball.  
                    Otherwise I wouldn't have passed him.  Right? 

      A hatch OPENS down the passageway and Tigh looks out at them. 

                                  TIGH 
                    There you are.  We're ready when you are. 

      INT. GALACTICA - WEAPON CONTROL ROOM 

      Filled from deck to overhead with consoles and monitors, this is the master control room for the 
      various weapon systems aboard Galactica.  Normally manned by one or two people at most, the 
      small room is crowded with Galactica officers -- Tigh, Tyrol and various others.  Adama and Kara 
    are standing near one particular console marked "POWER COILS/WEAPONS/MASTER."   

                                  ADAMA                      My father once told me that warships have lives just like 
                    human beings.  They're born when their guns are first 
                    charged, they die when their guns are finally silenced.   
                          (beat) 
                    We're gathered here to silence the guns of Galactica 
                    and so end her life in the Colonial Fleet.   

      Adama nods to Tigh, who presses a button on a speaker. 

                                  TIGH 
                    This is the Executive Officer.  All hands stand to 
                    attention.   Galactica, leaving the Fleet. 

      Everyone stands to attention as Adama flips up a protective cover on the console, exposing 
      several switches.  He hesitates for just a beat, then snaps each switch firmly. 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA - SHIP'S BELLY  

      From a camera mounted on the ship's belly, we see a PORTAL OPEN and three MASSIVE 
      WEAPON COILS are EJECTED from Galactica into space.  They travel a short distance away 
      from the ship by their own inertia. 

      INT. GALACTICA - WEAPON CONTROL ROOM 

      Tigh is watching a small readout on one console.  The room is deathly quiet.  Adama pushes the 
      final button. 

      EXT. SPACE - THE WEAPON COILS 

      IMPLODE with a minimum of fuss.  One minute they're there, the next, they're a field of dust. 

      INT. BALTAR'S APARTMENT - MORNING 

      Baltar is sitting in a chair, trying very hard to be the analytical, rational scientist.  The Woman sits 
      across from him. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    So... now you're telling me... you're a machine. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    I'm a person.  A woman. 

      She crosses her legs and Baltar can't help but watch. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    A machine woman.  A synthetic woman.  A robot.  That's 
                    you?  You're the new breed of Cylon? 

                                  WOMAN 
                    The old breed is still around.  They have their uses, even 
                    in our society.   

                                  BALTAR 
                    No.  I don't believe any of this.  Prove it.  Prove to me 
                    you're a Cylon.  Right now.                                   WOMAN 
                    I don't have to.  You know I'm telling the truth. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Stating something as fact does not make it so.  Because 
                    the truth is, I don't believe anything you're saying -- 

                                  WOMAN 
                    I know you, Gaius.  I know how you think and when you 
                    think it.  You believe me because deep down you've 
                    always known there was something different about me, 
                    something that didn't quite add up in the usual way.  And 
                    you believe me because it flatters your ego to believe 
                    me --  to believe that you alone among all the people of 
                    Kobol were chosen for my mission. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Your mission. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    You knew I wanted access to the Defense mainframe.  
                    My mission was to compromise Colonial Defense 
                    systems in preparation for an attack on Kobol. 

                                  BALTAR  
                    Oh my God...  

                                  WOMAN 
                    You never believed I really worked for some mysterious 
                    "company".  But you didn't really care either.  All that 
                    mattered was that you and you alone could give me that 
                    kind of access.  You were special.  You were powerful. 

                                  BALTAR  
                          (panic rising) 
                    How many people know about this?  That you chose 
                    me? 

                                  NUMBER SIX 
                    And even now, as the fate of your entire world hangs in 
                    the balance, all you can think about is how this affects 
                    you. 

      Baltar is on his feet, genuine panic setting in.  He starts grabbing at straws, desperately looking 
    for some way out. 

                                  BALTAR  
                    Wait-wait-wait.  Something doesn't make sense -- you're 
                    still here.  If this was really the end of the world, you 
                    wouldn't just be sitting here waiting to die with the rest of 
                    us.   

      She regards him sympathetically, like an adult regarding the silly theories of a child. 

                                  WOMAN                     Gaius, I can't die.  When this body's destroyed, my 
                    memory and consciousness will be instantantly 
                    transmitted to a new one.  I'll just wake up somewhere 
                    else in an identical body. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    You mean there's more out there like you? 

                                  WOMAN 
                    Of course.  I'm Number Six. 

      Just as we realize we finally learned her name, there's the SOUND of muffled BOOMS in the 
      distance.  The WINDOWS rattle.   

                                  NUMBER SIX 
                    It's begun. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - PASSENGER CABIN 

    Billy and Laura in their seats.  Billy's going over next week's schedule.  Laura is agitated. 

                                  BILLY 
                    You have two lunches next week.  Once with Councilor 
                    Chuken to go over his committee's request for-- 

                                  LAURA 
                          (abrupt) 
                    Excuse me. 

      She almost bolts into the aisle.  Billy just sits back, still trying to get used to his unpredictable 
      boss and her moods. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - BATHROOM 

      Laura ENTERS.  The room is barely big enough to turn around in.  Laura turns on the water, 
      looks up into the mirror and then suddenly start SOBBING as she leans against the tiny counter.  
      The raw emotion runs its course for a few moments, then she sucks in a shuddering breath and 
      fights for control.  A lighted sign starts blinking next to the mirror: "PLEASE RETURN TO YOUR 
      SEAT."  She ignores it. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - PASSENGER CABIN 

      Moments later, Laura ENTERS from the bathroom and stops in her tracks.  The PILOT is 
      standing in front of the passenger cabin with a grim look on his face, while the passengers 
      themselves look ashen-faced, stunned. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    ... that's all we know for sure. 

                                  LAURA 
                    What's going on? 

    Billy looks at her, wide-eyed and pale.  The kid is scared.  

                                  SPEAKER VOICE                           (prelap) 
                    CIC to Commanding Officer. 

      INT. ADAMA'S STATEROOM 

      Adama wakes up in his bunk.  He hits the intercom button. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Adama. 

                                  SPEAKER VOICE 
                    I'm sorry to disturb you, sir, but we've picked up a priority 
                    one alert message from Fleet Headquarters.  It... it was 
                    transmitted in the clear. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    In the clear?  What does it say? 

                                  SPEAKER VOICE 
                    "Attention all Colonial units.  Cylon attack underway.  
                    This is no drill." 

    Off Adama's face... 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 


                                    END OF ACT THREE 
                                        ACT FOUR 

      FADE IN:  

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

      1 -- INT. GALACTICA - REPAIR BAY 

      The Deck Hands, including Cally, Prosna and Socinus, are making a loose effort to clean the 
      empty bay, but mostly they're shooting the shit and horsing around. 

      2 -- INT. WEAPON CONTROL ROOM 

      A couple OFFICERS on duty, but nothing going on.  Someone yawns. 

      3 -- INT. TIGH'S STATEROOM 

      Tigh is in his bunk, smoking a cigar, staring up at the overhead.  An open bottle is nearby.   

      4 -- INT. LAUNCH CONTROL 

      The Launch Officer is sipping coffee and doing paperwork. 

      5 -- INT. STARBOARD HANGAR DECK - MUSEUM 

      A couple of Deck Hands are mopping the floor.         1 -- Tyrol ENTERS the Repair Bay, sits at desk and does paperwork. 

      3 -- Tigh reaches below the bunk, pulls out a weathered, wrinkled PHOTO of his WIFE.  Stares at 
    it, then touches his wife's face to the end of the cigar in his mouth and watches the photo burn. 

      Suddenly the KLAXON SOUNDS throughout the ship and a man's voice -- GAETA -- comes over 
    the speakers. 

                                  GAETA (V.O.) 
                    Action stations, action stations.  Set condition one 
                    throughout the ship.  This is not a drill. 

      1,2,3,4,5 -- They race to their stations. 

      1 -- Prosna hurries to secure equipment along with Socinus. 

                                  PROSNA 
                    Not a drill?  He can't be serious. 

                                  SOCINUS 
                    Sounds like it to me. 

                                  GAETA (V.O.)  
                    Repeat:  Action stations, action stations.  Set condition 
                    one throughout the ship.  

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                  TO: 

      INT. GALACTICA - COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      The nerve center of Galactica.  From here, the commanding officer has all the information 
      necessary to fight the ship at his fingertips.  The CIC is one of the larger compartments on the 
      ship.  It's kept DARK so as to better read the various dials, monitors, readouts, etc. that line every 
      available wall and surface, but there is no one single "viewscreen" or window that dominates the 
      room.  There are indeed computers here, but they're about at the level of an Apple II.  This is not 
      a Trekkian bridge of neat lines and soft pastels, this is a working facility where men and women 
      sit in chairs for too long, jury-rig broken consoles with tape and wire, and drink way too much 
      coffee. 

      The Tactical Officer on duty, Lt. Gaeta (also seen in the Act One opening sequence) is leaning 
      over the shoulder of Dualla as she taps in commands on a keyboard.   

      Tigh arrives and secures the hatch behind him before taking his place next to Adama.   

                                  TIGH 
                    What've we got?  Shipping accident?  

      Adama pushes a sheaf of messages to Tigh, who looks them over quickly.  A phone BUZZES.  
      Gaeta picks up the handset. 

                                  GAETA 
                          (to handset) 
                    Combat?  Understood. 
                          (replaces set in cradle)                     Condition one is set, all decks report ready for action, sir. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Very well. 

      Tigh looks up from the messages in surprise.  

                                  TIGH 
                    They can't be serious.  This is a joke.  Fleet's playing a 
                    joke on you -- a retirement prank.  C'mon. 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (grim) 
                    I don't think so, Paul. 

      Adama punches a button on an overhead speaker. 

                                  ADAMA (cont'd) 
                          (to speaker) 
                    This is the Commander.  Moments ago, this ship 
                    received word that a Cylon attack against our homes is 
                    underway.   

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

    1-- INT. HANGAR DECK 

      Tyrol and his Deck Hands listen to every word with shock. 

                                  ADAMA (V.O.) 
                    We do not yet know the size or disposition or strength of 
                    the enemy forces...  

      2 -- INT. LAUNCH CONTROL 

      The Launch Officer listens grimly. 

                                  ADAMA (V.O.) 
                    ... but all indications point to a massive assault against 
                    homeworld defenses. 

      3 -- INT. COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

    As before. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Admiral Nagala has taken personal command of the 
                    Colonial Fleet aboard the battlestar Atlantia... 
                          (beat) 
                    ... following the destruction of Fleet Headquarters in the 
                    first wave of attacks. 

      That information seems to suck the air out of the room. 

    1, 2 -- The reaction here is the same -- numb shock.                                   ADAMA (cont'd) 
                    How this could've happened, why it happened -- none of 
                    that matters right now.  All that does matter is that as of 
                    this moment we are at war.  
                          (beat) 
                    You'll get further updates as we get them.  Thank you. 

    1,2 -- The officers and men of Galactica react to this news, set about getting their ship ready for 
      combat. 

      3 -- Adama clicks off the speaker, looks around the room at all the young faces staring back at 
      him.  They're scared, but holding it at bay, looking to him for their next orders.  He meets their 
      eyes one by one and give them their orders calmly, professionally. 

                                  ADAMA (cont'd) 
                    Tactical -- begin a plot on all military units in the solar 
                    system, friendly and otherwise. 

                                  GAETA 
                    Yes, sir. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    XO -- we're going to need to find a new set of weapon 
                    coils. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Right. 

                                  ADAMA  
                          (to Dualla) 
                    D -- Pass the word for Lieutenant Thrace.  Then send a 
                    signal to our fighter squadron:  Report position and 
                    tactical status. 

                                  DUALLA 
                    Yes, sir. 

      They're still looking at him -- waiting for something more.  Adama reaches down, tries to give it to 
      them: 

                                  ADAMA 
                    You've trained for this.  You're ready for this.  Stand to 
                    your duties.  Trust your shipmates.  We'll get through 
                    this. 

    It's enough for now.  The CIC crew swings into action. 

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                  TO: 

      EXT. SPACE - VIPER FORMATION 

      With Boomer's Raptor still in the lead. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS)                     Boomer, acknowledge Galactica's signal, send them our 
                    position...  

      INT. SHARON'S RAPTOR  

      Sharon and Helo are looking down at their screens and readouts in the cockpit. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                    ... tell them we've detected a formation of Cylon fighters 
                    directly ahead... and that I intend to attack.   

      Sharon, still in shock over the turn of events doesn't reply right away. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) (cont'd) 
                    Boomer, do you copy? 

                                  SHARON 
                          (to mic) 
                    Copy that. 

      She nods to Helo, who begins tapping in the information.   Sharon is keyed up, tense.  Her grip 
      on the controls is white-knuckle tight. 

                                  HELO 
                          (quiet) 
                    Ease up there, Boomer.  Take a deep breath. 

      She tries to relax, lets out a long breath. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                    Boomer, gimme an update on those Cylons. 

      The radar-like screens in the cockpit show an overwhelming number of contacts and signals.  
      She struggles to make sense of it for a minute.   

                                  SHARON 
                    I show ten -- no, make that five fighters on course 324-
                    110, speed 7 decimal three.  Time to intercept... seven 
                    minutes. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                    You don't sound too sure. 

                                  SHARON 
                    There's a lot of jamming going on out there... Cylons are 
                    using a lot of sensor decoys... we're sorting through 
                    them, but... 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                      Understood.  Just take your time, guide us in, we'll do 
                    the rest. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Yes, sir.       She tries to focus on the task at hand. 

      INT. GALACTICA - COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      Adama is with Gaeta at a large plexiglas display, where an ENLISTED CREWMEMBER is 
      MARKING the positions of ships and fighters with a grease pencil.  The display is made up of 
      several intersecting flat plexi-sheets that together form a way to track spacecraft in three 
      dimensions.  (Imagine a series of flat, clear, circles that are joined at the center axis point and fan 
    out to form a spherical shape.  Or just trust me.)   

                                  GAETA 
                          (points to marker) 
                    That would put our squadron about... here.   
                          (another marker) 
                    It looks like the main fight is shaping up over here near 
                    Kobol's orbit.  Even at top speed, they're still over an 
                    hour away. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    And it'll take us at least four...   

                                  KARA (O.S.) 
                    What the hell's going on?   

      Adama looks up to see a Kara Thrace has just arrived. 

                                  KARA (cont'd) 
                    Why didn't we get an intel warning?  How could the 
                    Cylons get all the way to Kobol without being detected?   

                                  ADAMA 
                    Good questions.  All we know for sure is that the Cylons 
                    have achieved complete surprise and we're taking heavy 
                    losses. 
                          (shows her a message) 
                    Thirty battlestars destroyed in the opening attack. 

                                  KARA 
                          (shocked) 
                    That's a quarter of the fleet. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    I need pilots and fighters.   

      Kara shoves her shock to one side. 

                                  KARA  
                    Pilots you got -- there's twenty of us climbing the walls 
                    down in the ready room.  But fighters...   

                                  ADAMA 
                    I seem to remember seeing an entire squadron of 
                    fighters down in the starboard hangar deck today. 

      Kara heads for the hatch at a dead run.       INT. STARBOARD HANGAR BAY - MUSEUM 

      Kara and TWENTY PILOTS race inside, along with Chief Tyrol and his entire Deck Crew.  They 
      head for the Viper museum pieces on display, pilots climbing up to the cockpits to check the 
      instruments, the Deck Hands ripping away the placards and velvet ropes.  Kara and Tyrol are all 
      over the first one in view. 

                                  KARA 
                          (checking cockpit) 
                    You sure they'll fly? 

                                  TYROL 
                          (checking engine) 
                    Just have to put the rad buffers in the engines and pull 
                    the gun safeties.  Bigger problem's getting them over to 
                    the port launch bay. 

                                  KARA  
                    Why can't we use starboard launch? 

                                  TYROL 
                    It's a gift shop now. 

                                  KARA 
                    Frak me. 

                                  TYROL 
                          (to Hands) 
                    C'mon!  C'mon!  Let's go!  We got ships to move! 

                                  LAURA 
                          (prelap) 
                    Is he still out there? 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP 

    Billy and Laura are in their seats.  Billy looks out the window.   There's a beat before Lee's Viper 
      edges into view, flying alongside the Transport. 

                                  BILLY 
                          (relieved) 
                    Yeah, he's still there.   

                                  LAURA 
                    Good.  Because if things were really that bad, he 
                    wouldn't still be out there, right?  He'd be called away, 
                    wouldn't he?   
                          (beat) 
                    Why am I asking you? 

    Billy gives her a half-hearted grin.  She tries to grin back, takes a deep breath, leans over, tries to 
    see the Viper with her own eyes. 

      INT. LEE'S VIPER       Where Lee is banging a fist against the console in rage and frustration. 

                                  LEE 
                    COME ON!  WORK DAMNIT!  WORK! 

      A DISPLAY flickers on and off for a moment, then finally goes OUT.  Lee can't believe it. 

                                  LEE (cont'd) 
                    Unbelievable. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT (WIRELESS) 
                    Any luck over there, Apollo? 

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

      1 -- EXT. SPACE - VIPER & TRANSPORT 

      The two ships flying formation. 

      2 -- INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

      Much like the cockpit of a jumbo jet, with switches and buttons surrounding the PILOT (40s).  The 
      Pilot can see Lee's Viper out his WINDOW. 

    3-- INT. LEE'S VIPER 

      Favoring Lee's view of the Transport out the canopy. 

                                  LEE 
                    No.  My navigational system is still down.   

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    To be honest with you, I'm kinda glad you're sticking 
                    around.  Makes us all feel better just seeing you out 
                    there. 

                                  LEE 
                    Don't get too comfortable.  This old junker I'm in was 
                    meant for show, not combat.  I don't even have a 
                    functioning gunsight over here.  If we run into a problem, 
                    I'll do what I can to protect you, but the first sign of 
                    trouble, you pour on the speed and you run. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT  
                    Don't worry about that.  My hand hasn't left the throttle 
                    since we got the first message.  Colonial Heavy 798 out. 

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                  TO: 

      INT. GALACTICA - COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      Dualla is printing out another stack of messages.  Gaeta leans over her shoulder, scans through 
    the pile as it prints out.                                   GAETA 
                    What's the latest? 

                                  DUALLA 
                    A lot of confusion.  I keep seeing these weird reports 
                    about... equipment malfunctions.  

                                  GAETA 
                    Why's that weird? 

                                  DUALLA 
                    It's the number of the malfunctions.  One report said an 
                    entire battlestar lost power just before it came into 
                    contact with the enemy.  They said it was like... 
                    someone just turned off a switch. 

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

      1 -- EXT. SPACE - SHARON'S RAPTOR 

      Leading the (new) Vipers into battle.   

      2 -- INT. SHARON'S RAPTOR  

      Where Sharon and Helo are watching their consoles. 

      3 -- INT. CAG VIPER  

      Where the CAG is flying his Viper. 

                                  SHARON (WIRELESS) 
                    Cylon formation ahead.  We're down to two confirmed 
                    Cylons now.  Approaching visual range. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                    Okay, Boomer we'll take it from here. 

      1 -- The Raptor slows down, drops down out of the formation, letting the Vipers race ahead, 
      adding another screen: 

      4 -- EXT. SPACE - VIPER FORMATION 

    As the 20 Vipers charge ahead. 

      3 -- CAG looks out the canopy at his Vipers. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                    All right, boys and girls, break into attack formation -- 
                    there might be only two of them out there, but stay with 
                    your wingman and don't get overconfident.  

      4 -- The 20 Vipers spread out into pairs. 

                                  PILOT #1 (WIRELESS) 
                    Anybody know what these things look like?                                   PILOT #2 (WIRELESS) 
                    The pictures I've seen of old Cylon fighters were sorta 
                    like a big flying wing. 

                                  PILOT #3 (WIRELESS) 
                    Those pictures are forty years old. 

                                  PILOT #2 (WIRELESS)  
                    Yeah, well how do we engage a fighter we've never 
                    seen before? 

                                  PILOT #3 (WIRELESS) 
                    It doesn't matter what they look like genius, just shoot at 
                    whatever it is you see.   

                                  PILOT #4 (WIRELESS) 
                    Time for a little payback. 

                                  PILOT #5 (WIRELESS) 
                    I hear that. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                    Okay, keep the chatter down. 

      2 -- Sharon looks down at her radar screen, which we will learn is called a DRADIS (Direction, 
      RAnge and DIStance).  The tracks of the Viper approaching the Cylon targets are clearly marked. 

                                  SHARON (WIRELESS) 
                    CAG/Boomer.  You should be in visual range.  Do you 
                    see them? 

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                    TO: 

      EXT. SPACE - THE CYLON FIGHTERS 

      And there they are -- TWO CYLON FIGHTERS coming out of the black void of space like two 
      white sharks appearing in the murky depths.  There is something vaguely anthropomorphic about 
    the design, as if the original Cylon bipedal warriors had been reworked and reconceptualized into 
      spacecraft.  There is at least a suggestion of design elements that recall the classic Cylon -- 
      chrome sheen, metal grill work in front, a hint of a helmet in place of a cockpit.  It's like facing a 
      Cylon warrior in space. 

      INT. CAG VIPER 

      CAG can see them out his canopy. 

                                  CAG (WIRELESS) 
                    We see'em.  Don't think they've seen us, though.  
                    They're not taking evasive maneuvers. 

      Back to... 

                                                                          MULTI-SCREEN:       5 -- EXT. SPACE - THE CYLON FIGHTERS 

      Cruising along, unperturbed. 

      4 -- The Vipers going in for the kill... 

                                  PILOT #2 (WIRELESS) 
                    Hey -- there's no cockpits!  There's nobody flying these 
                    things. 

                                  PILOT #3 (WIRELESS) 
                            (disappointed) 
                    So they're just some drones?  Ah...  

      3 -- CAG leads the charge. 

                                  CAG 
                    I don't care what they are.  We've got good targets.  All 
                    Vipers -- weapons free.  Go get'em. 

      5 -- And then it happens.  DOORS slide aside on the noses of the Cylon fighters, revealing a RED 
      TRACKING LIGHT.  The oscillating light emits a BEAM which SWEEPS out and hits...     

      4 -- The Vipers.  Each ship LOSES POWER the instant the beam hits it.  Engines, running lights, 
      cockpit lights -- everything.  The ships continue moving forward out of sheer inertia, but without 
      guidance. 

      3 -- The CAG reacts in shock.  His wireless no longer works. 

                                  CAG (cont'd) 
                    What the hell was that...?  I've lost power!  Jolly, take 
                    over!  Jolly...?  Can you read me...? 

    He looks around at the other DARK and SILENT Vipers cruise through space. 

      2 -- Sharon and Helo watch their screens with growing concern. 

                                  HELO 
                    What're they doing?   

                                  SHARON 
                    I don't know.  They're just going straight in. 

                                  HELO 
                    The com chatter's gone.  They're not talking anymore... 

      Sharon watches for another beat, then dials in a wireless. 

                                  SHARON 
                    CAG/Boomer.  
                          (beat) 
                    CAG/Boomer.  Do you read?  

      5 -- The Cylon BEAMS STOP and the fighters head toward the powerless Vipers, which are 
      sitting ducks.       3 -- The CAG can only watch helplessly as he sees 20 MISSILES drop from the Cylon wings. 

                                  CAG 
                    Oh my God. 

    4 & 5 -- On the nose of the lead Cylon fighter, the red light continues its remorseless oscillation.  
      Then the Cylon MISSILES STREAK away from the fighters and SLAM into the Vipers -- 
      DESTROYING ALL OF THEM. 

      3 -- The CAG's Viper EXPLODES around him. 

      2 -- On Sharon's Dradis screen, the Vipers symbols abruptly VANISH.  Sharon and Helo just sit 
      there for a moment, stunned by the sudden and complete destruction of the entire Galactica 
      squadron. 

      5 -- The Cylons avoid the billowing CLOUDS of VAPORIZED PARTICLES that moments ago 
      were ships, and continue on. 

      2 -- The dradis screen now shows the Cylon fighters heading straight for them. 

                                  HELO 
                    Uh... Boomer...? 

      Sharon sees it, nods. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Right.   

      1 -- The Raptor wheels about and STREAKS AWAY. 

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                  TO: 

      EXT. KOBOL - TRANSPORTATION HUB - DAY 

        A PASSENGER liner is at the same terminal we saw in Act One.  It's smaller and sleeker than the 
      multi-purpose Transport. 

      INT. PASSENGER LINER - DAY 

      A re-dress of the Transport passenger cabin, this one is more obviously a commercial liner, with 
      more comfortable accommodations.  The liner is filling with nervous PASSENGERS, who are 
      talking in hushed voices and looking out the window with mounting anxiety as they take their 
      seats.  Gaius Baltar, hugging his suitcase to his chest, makes his way down the aisle and drops 
    into his seat.  A STEWARD hurries down the aisle. 

                                  STEWARD 
                          (tense, urgent) 
                    Seats, please.  Please.  

                                  BALTAR 
                    When are we leaving? 

                                  STEWARD                     We've been cleared for immediate lift-off.  Seats 
                    everyone -- please! 

      The ship's ENGINE WHINE begins to build.  Baltar sits back.  Maybe he's going to survive this 
      after all. 

      INT. AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL CENTER - DAY 

      Crammed with terminals and people.  It's chaotic, people rushing around and yelling into 
      headsets.  Suddenly -- the POWER IS CUT.  Everything goes dark. 

      INT. PASSENGER LINER - DAY 

    As before.  Suddenly, the ENGINE WINDS DOWN.    

                                  PA VOICE 
                    Ladies and Gentlemen, we've just been informed that a 
                    massive power disruption has just hit the traffic control 
                    system.  I'm afraid we're grounded until further notice. 

      Baltar just stares ahead. 

      EXT. TRANSPORT HUB - DAY 

      Baltar wanders outside the terminal as if in a daze.  PEOPLE are hurrying around in various 
      stages of panic or apathy.  It's a scene of mass confusion and fear.  Baltar still has his suitcase in 
    his hand.  Doesn't know what to do. 

      Then he sees her.   

      Number Six is standing a short distance away, watching him.  He goes to her, not sure what else 
    to do.  Baltar just stands there. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    I can't leave. 

                                  NUMBER SIX 
                    I know. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    That your doing? 

                                  NUMBER SIX 
                    No.  That wasn't my job. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    What was your job?   

                                  NUMBER SIX 
                    We should discuss this after. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    After?  After wha--? 

      Suddenly, there's a FLASH of LIGHT from o.c.        EXT. KOBOL - CAPITOL CITY - DAY 

      The Shopkeeper reacts to the FLASH... 

      The Policemen reacts... 

      The Construction workers react... 

      The jogger reacts... 

      EXT. TRANSPORT HUB - DAY 

      Baltar reacts to the flash and a second later, all the WINDOWS in the terminal are BLOWN OUT 
    in a shower of GLASS. 

      EXT. KOBOL - CAPRICA CITY - DAY 

      The bustling metropolis is being consuming by a BLINDING WHITE LIGHT.  The flash recedes, 
      forms a BALL of FIRE, then rises into a tower MUSHROOM CLOUD as a fifty-megaton 
      thermonuclear weapon detonates over the city. 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 


                                    END OF ACT FOUR 
                                        ACT FIVE 

      FADE IN: 

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

    1-- INT. GALACTICA - COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      A grim-faced Adama is addressing the entire ship. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    ... preliminary reports indicate a thermo-nuclear device in 
                    the fifty-megaton range... 

    2-- INT. STARBOARD HANGAR BAY - MUSEUM 

      (Old) Vipers are in the middle of being trundled out of the museum, but Tyrol and the entire Deck 
      crew are standing still, listening to Adama with shocked, blank looks. 

                                  ADAMA (V.O.) 
                    ... was detonated over Caprica City approximately thirty 
                    minutes ago.   

    3-- INT. REPAIR BAY 

      A Viper was being worked on, but now the Deck Hands are utterly still, listening to the 
      announcement.   

                                  ADAMA (V.O.)                     There's no report on casualties, but obviously... they will 
                    be high. 

    4-- INT. LAUNCH TUBE 

      Kara and more Deck Hands were maneuvering a Viper into the Launch Tube.  They too, stand 
      there frozen in the moment.  One of the Hands -- Cally -- asks no one in particular: 

                                  CALLY 
                    How many people in Caprica? 

                                  KARA 
                          (quiet) 
                    Seven million. 

      1 -- Adama pauses, thinks of the right thing to say. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    Mourn Caprica later.  Right now, the most important 
                    thing you can do is get this ship into the fight.   

    He clicks off, looks around CIC.  It takes a beat, then people return to their jobs and the place 
      resembles the hive of activity it was earlier.   

      Throughout the ship there's an eerie quiet as people avoid conversation, try not to think about 
      what just happened.   

      Someone drops a coffee mug and it shatters. 

      We go directly to a new... 

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

    1-- EXT. SPACE - SHARON'S RAPTOR   

      The Raptor is twisting and turning, running from some unseen pursuer.   

      2 -- INT. SHARON'S RAPTOR - CONSOLE POV 

      Sharon and Helo frantically working the controls.  The violent, desperate maneuvers throw them 
      from side to side. 

                                  HELO 
                    Two missiles now... 

      3 -- EXT. SPACE - TWO CYLON MISSILES 

      Are chasing the Raptor. 

    2 -- Sharon turns around, looks behind them. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Jam the warheads! 

                                  HELO                     Trying...  but I can't find their frequency... better drop a 
                    swallow. 

                                  SHARON 
                    We've only got two left... 

      1 -- A small DECOY DRONE drops from the Raptor's belly.  It races away from the Raptor. 

      3 -- One of the Cylon missiles turns to chase the decoy, but the second one hesitates, then 
      continues after the Raptor. 

      2 -- They watch the missile continue to track them on the screen. 

                                  SHARON (cont'd) 
                    Dammit. 

                                  HELO 
                    Uh, oh... 

                                  SHARON 
                    What? 

                                  HELO 
                    Check the screen ahead. 

    On Helo's screen, there are so many contacts ahead of them, that it's like a field of moving stars. 

                                  SHARON 
                    I guess we found the main fight. 

      3 -- The single remaining Cylon missile is getting closer. 

    3-- A BUZZER goes off in the cockpit. 

                                  HELO 
                    Missile lock! 

      Sharon hits the switch. 

      1 -- The Raptor drops its last DECOY, it streaks off. 

      3 -- The Cylon missile is close.  It "senses" the decoy, almost goes after it, then turns back and 
      EXPLODES. 

      1 -- The Raptor makes a final twisting maneuver and misses the full brunt of the explosion, but 
    still catches a heavy blow. 

      2 -- Inside the cockpit, the electronics go on and off, circuitry POPS and SPARKS.  A small FIRE 
      starts. 

      1 -- The Raptor is trailing FROZEN VAPOR PARTICLES, the interior lights FLUCTUATING. 

      2 -- Sharon struggles to bring the ship under control.  She puts out the fire with a small 
      EXTINGUISHER.                                     SHARON  
                    Okay... Okay... We're still here.  Helo?  Hey!  You okay? 

      Helo is conscious, if groggy. 

                                  HELO 
                    Present... 

                                  SHARON 
                    Stay with me... 

      Sharon makes a quick survey of the situation. 

                                  SHARON (cont'd) 
                    We've gotta fuel leak... we're gonna have to put down to 
                    repair it... 

                                  HELO 
                    Lotta company between us and home... 

                                  SHARON 
                    Yeah. 

      She thinks for a beat, then gets an idea.  She grabs the controls and hits the throttle. 

      1 -- The damaged ship LEAPS FORWARD on full thrust. 

      2 -- Sharon guides the Raptor straight ahead, then CUTS THE POWER.  The cockpit goes 
      DARK. 

      1 -- The ship goes DARK, but continues to move ahead. 

      2 -- Sharon and Helo are just dark silhouettes against the starfield out the canopy. 

                                  HELO 
                    So we coast? 

                                  SHARON 
                    Best way to avoid attracting attention.  No power 
                    signature, go in a straight line -- unless somebody gets 
                    close enough to actually see us, we'll look like a chunk 
                    of debris on sensors. I think we have enough inertia to 
                    make it to Kobol's ionosphere, then we'll power up and 
                    find a place to land.   

                                  HELO 
                          (pained) 
                    Nice... nice thinking there.   
                          (beat) 
                    I think we can officially stop calling you a Rook now, 
                    Lieutenant. 

      The unexpected praise catches her off-guard.  She grins at him, he grins back -- then winces.  He 
      looks down in surprise -- the side of his flight suit is soaked with BLOOD.                                                                   COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                  TO: 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

      The Pilot is looking at a PRINT-OUT with dismay.  There's a KNOCK on the cockpit door.  He 
      reaches out and OPENS it, admitting Laura into the tiny space. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Yes? 

                                  LAURA 
                    One of the passengers has a short-wave wireless.  They 
                    heard a report that Caprica's been nuked.  Any truth in 
                    it? 

      The Pilot hesitates a beat. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Caprica... and three more colonies. 

    He hands her the print-out.  Laura looks it over, sits down heavily in the empty co-pilot seat. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT (cont'd) 
                    I guess... I guess I should make an announcement or 
                      something... 

      Laura glances up at him.  The Pilot is still in shock, a bit adrift.  She tries to rally herself. 

                                  LAURA 
                    I'll do it.  I'm a member of the cabinet.  Guess I better 
                    start acting like one. 
                          (long exhale) 
                    I need to contact the Ministry of Civil Defense.  See what 
                    I can do to help.   

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Can't believe this is really happening... 

                                  LAURA 
                    Yeah, it's been a helluva couple of days. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Coupla days? 

                                  LAURA 
                    Yeah. 

      She EXITS. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - PASSENGER CABIN 

      A few minutes later, Laura stands at the front of the cabin, facing Billy and the rest of the 
      passengers.  At this point, we notice Doral, the tour guide is in one of the seats.                                     LAURA 
                    ... including the colonies of Caprica, Picon, Aeries and 
                    Tauron. 

                                  WOMAN 
                      No-no-no-no-no-no-no-no... 

                                  MAN 
                    What about Geminon?  Anything in Geminion?   

                                  MAN #2 
                    What're we going to do? 

                                  WOMAN #2 
                    I have to get home!  I have to get home! 

                                  LAURA (cont'd) 
                      Please-please-PLEASE! 

    It gets a little quieter, but it's a panicky room. 

                                  LAURA (cont'd) 
                    I'm trying to contact the government right now and get 
                    more information.  In the meantime, we should be 
                    prepared for an extended stay aboard this ship.  Okay.  
                    So.   
                          (points them out) 
                    You -- you -- and you.  Make an inventory of the 
                    emergency supplies and rations.  

                                  DORAL 
                    Wait a minute -- who put you in charge? 

                                  LAURA 
                    That's a good question.  The answer is no one.  But this 
                    is a government ship and I'm the senior government 
                    official, so I guess that makes me in charge. 
                          (moving on) 
                    You and you -- go down into the cargo spaces and see 
                    about setting up living space so we can get out of this 
                    cabin.  Everyone else, sit tight... try to relax. 

      People go to carry out their tasks.  Doral glares at Laura, but she ignores him, goes over to sit 
      with Billy.  She holds out a piece of paper. 

                                  LAURA (cont'd) 
                    Here's the passenger manifest.   

    Billy takes it, and when he does, Laura notices that his hand is trembling.  Hers is not.   

                                  LAURA (cont'd) 
                    You okay? 

                                  BILLY 
                    Yeah, I uh... yeah.                           (beat) 
                    My, uh,... my parents moved to Picon three months 
                    ago... to be closer to my sisters... and their families... 
                    their grandkids... 

      Laura nods.  What can she say?  Billy holds it together for the moment, looks for something else 
    to talk about. 

                                  BILLY (cont'd) 
                    You, uh... you have family? 

                                  LAURA 
                    No.  Just me. 

      The cockpit door OPENS. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Madame Secretary?  We've got your comlink. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

      Moments later.  Laura is sitting in the vacant Co-Pilot's seat, while the Pilot looks on.  The voice 
      on the wireless is stressed out, emotionally spent. 

                                  JACK (WIRELESS) 
                    Thank God you're not here, Laura.  Thank God.   

      EXT. KOBOL - CAPRICA CITY - DAY 

      We MOVE through the devastated city, finding it littered with rubble, drifting clouds of DUST and 
      debris.  And bodies.  Hundreds of bodies, including the Shopkeeper, the Policemen, the 
      Construction workers, the jogger...  

                                  JACK (WIRELESS) 
                    It's complete chaos... never seen anything like it... the 
                    dust in the air... people wandering the streets... 

      INT. GOVERNMENT BUILDING - DAY 

      JACK (40s) -- the man on the other end of the wireless -- is standing in a room with blown-out 
      windows, dust everywhere.  The windows look out onto a STREET where there's a continuous 
      RAIN OF DUST and debris.  PEOPLE are shellshocked, coughing, trying to find their way to 
      safety.  It's the end of a world.   

                                  LAURA (WIRELESS) 
                    Jack.  Where is the President?  Where's the President, 
                    Jack?  Is he alive? 

                                  JACK 
                    I don't know... I think so... we hear all kinds of things...  

                                                                            INTERCUT: 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT     As before. 

                                  LAURA 
                    Do you know if the Cylons have made any demands?  
                    Do we know what they want? 

      Something BUZZES in the Transport cockpit and the Pilot grabs a headset. 

                                  JACK 
                    No.  No contact.  I'm pretty sure about that... 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Colonial Heavy 798. 
                          (beat) 
                    Where? 
                          (beat) 
                    What should we do? 
                          (beat) 
                    Copy that. 

                                  LAURA 
                    Has anyone... 
                          (difficult) 
                    Has anyone discussed the possibility of... surrender?  
                    Has it been considered? 
 

                                  JACK (cont'd) 
                    After Picon was nuked, the President offered a 
                    complete, unconditional surrender.  The Cylons didn't 
                    even respond. 

      Laura takes that in, looks up just in time to see Lee's Viper TURN and STREAK AWAY through 
    the window. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    The Cylons have found us.  There's an inbound missile 
                    heading this way.  

                                  LAURA 
                    So where the hell did our escort go? 

      END INTERCUT and go to...  

                                                                       MULTI-SCREEN: 

      1 -- EXT. SPACE - TRANSPORT   

      The lumbering Transport is cruising through space, seemingly unaware of the danger from... 

      2 -- FROM CYLON MISSILE CAMERA 

      Mounted on the fuselage, we're looking directly ahead at the Transport as it rushes toward us.  
      Nothing to stop the missile now... then suddenly...       3 -- EXT. SPACE - LEE'S VIPER 

      ROARS into frame directly ahead of the missile, its ENGINES BLAZING with heat and 
      afterburners. 

      4 -- INT. LEE'S VIPER 

    As he looks back over his shoulder to see if this is going to work. 

      2 -- Lee has maneuvered his Viper directly in the path of the missile.  His EXHAUST is going right 
    into the missile. 

      4 -- Lee checks his instruments, judges the moment... 

                                  LEE 
                    Okay, Colonial 798, break on my mark... three... two... 
                    one... mark. 

    1 & 3 -- The Transport and the Viper TURN in opposite directions...  

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                  TO: 

      2 -- The Cylon missile FOLLOWS the Viper. 

      4 -- Lee keeps glancing back at the missile as it follows him. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT (WIRELESS) 
                          (relieved) 
                    Thank you, Apollo.  What happens now? 

                                  LEE 
                    I have no idea... 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 


                                    END OF ACT FIVE 
                                          ACT SIX 

      FADE IN: 

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

      1 -- EXT. SPACE - LEE'S VIPER & MISSILE - CHASE CAMERA POV 

      The Viper is still racing away from the cylon missile. 

      2 -- INT. LEE'S VIPER 

      Lee keeps looking behind him -- the Cylon missile is still there.  His FUEL GAUGE is edging into 
    the red. 

      Lee looks ahead, lets out a long breath.       3 -- EXT. SPACE - LEE'S VIPER - OVERHEAD COCKPIT POV 

      Directly ahead is a MOON.  Deeply cratered and pitted, and strewn with rough, craggy mountain 
      ranges.  

      1 -- As the Viper dives toward a CANYON on the moon's surface, the missile follows it move for 
      move. 

      4 -- CYLON MISSILE CAMERA POV 

      The camera mounted atop the missile's fuselage gives us a perfect view of Lee's Viper as it drops 
      down into the canyon and heads for a TIGHT PASSAGE. 

      5 -- CHASE CAMERA - AERIAL POV 

      Looking DOWN on the chase.  The Viper races through the passage and makes an immediate 
      hard TURN.  But instead of taking the bait and smashing into the wall, the missile opts to go UP 
      and over the passage.  As Lee's Viper winds its way through the treacherous canyon, the missile 
      flies safely above, but following him all the way. 

      2 -- Lee glances up at the missile far above his canopy. 

                                  LEE 
                    Clever little bastard aren't you...  

      He's looking for something up ahead. 

      3 -- From the overhead view ahead, we begin to notice that there are SIGNS and SYMBOLS 
      dotting the sides of the canyon.  This is a Viper TRAINING RANGE.  There's a TUNNEL 
      OPENING in the floor of the Canyon straight ahead.  A sign that flashes by us says:  INTERIOR 
      FLIGHT RULES AHEAD -- REDUCE SPEED 

      5 -- Looking DOWN on the chase.  We see Lee's Viper suddenly ZIP straight down INTO the 
      Tunnel.  The Cylon missile immediately plunges down and FOLLOWS him into the tunnel.  

      3 -- We're tearing along through the tunnel.  It's a long CAVE that's been smoothed out and 
      turned into a training run.  WARNING LIGHTS and SYMBOLS line the walls, along with the 
      occasional scorch mark.   

      2 -- Lee grips the throttle and the control yoke, braces himself... then CUTS the throttle and 
      PULLS back on the yoke.  The Viper begins to FLIP END OVER END. 

      1 -- The Viper FLIPS END OVER END, still traveling through the tunnel on inertia, but without 
      engine thrust.  Lee steadies the Viper upside down (to us) and facing directly BACKWARDS. 

      3 -- From the overhead cockpit view, it looks like we're travelling BACKWARDS and slowing 
      down a little.  We can see the Cylon missile starting to gain ground. 

      2 -- Lee watches the missile get closer, and he keeps glancing out the canopy to check his 
      position. 

      1 -- FLYING BACKWARDS, the Viper makes slight turns and adjustments to avoid obstacles and 
      keep away from the walls during turns. 

      3 -- The Cylon missile is getting BIGGER and CLOSER.         2 -- Lee reaches out quickly, JAMS a PEN on top of his instrument console -- tries to use it as a 
      CRUDE GUNSIGHT -- he squints, tries to line up the missile.  He FIRES. 

      4 -- From the Cylon missile we see FIRE streak out from the Viper guns, but MISSES. 

      1 -- Lee FIRES again... MISSES AGAIN. 

      2 -- Lee is determined, grim...  

      3 -- The Cylon missile is nearly on top of him, this is the last chance...  

      1 -- Lee FIRES -- HITS THE MISSILE -- it EXPLODES. 

      3 -- The EXPLOSION roars toward Lee's Viper -- the BLAST HITS the Viper -- blows it 
      BACKWARD... 

      1 -- The Viper is BLOWN out the END of the TUNNEL and into SPACE above the moon.  The 
      ship tumbles end over end. 

      2 -- Lee struggles to regain control of the ship.  He finally does, IGNITES the ENGINE. 

      1 -- The Viper tries to head out into space, but then the ENGINE SPUTTERS and DIES. 

      2 -- The fuel gauge is EMPTY.  Lee reacts. 

      1 -- The ship is caught by the moon's gravity and is pulled down into an ORBIT, where it coasts. 

      2 -- Lee lets out a long breath.  At least he's alive.  He works the wireless. 

                                  LEE (cont'd) 
                      Krypter-krypter-krypter.  This is Apollo to any Colonial 
                    vessel.  I'm declaring an emergency.  Am orbiting the 
                    fleet training range on the Trevor moon.  Out of fuel and 
                    need assistance.   

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                  TO: 

      EXT. SPACE - LEE'S VIPER - WIDE 

    As the Viper silently orbits the moon. 

                                  LEE (WIRELESS) 
                      Krypter-krypter-krypter.  This is Apollo to any Colonial 
                    vessel.  I'm declaring an emergency...  

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA 

      Emphasizing the port landing pod. 

                                  LAUNCH OFFICER (wireless) 
                          (prelap) 
                    Viper one-nine, clear forward. 

      INT. GALACTICA - LAUNCH CONTROL       The launch officer makes her final check. 

                                  LAUNCH OFFICER 
                    ... nav-con green, interval check, thrust positive and... ... 
                    steady.  Good-bye. 

      She pushes the BUTTON. 

      INT. LAUNCH TUBE 

      An OLD-STYLE VIPER roars down the tube. 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA - PORT LAUNCH TUBES 

      From a camera mounted atop Galactica, we see the Viper streak away from the ship and then 
      JOIN UP with TEN OLD VIPERS already spaceborne and assemblying at a distance. 

                                  KARA (WIRELESS) 
                    Galactica/Viper one-seven.  Ready. 

      INT. LAUNCH TUBE 

      Kara is sitting in the cockpit of an old-style Viper, ready for launch. 

                                  LAUNCH OFFICER (wireless) 
                    Viper one-seven, clear forward, nav-con green, interval 
                    check, thrust positive and...  

      INT. LAUNCH CONTROL 

      The launch officer makes her final check, then sees something wrong. 

                                  LAUNCH OFFICER 
                     ... fluctuating.  Abort launch.   

      INT. LAUNCH TUBE  

      Kara's temper is right on the verge of boiling over, but she does her job -- deactivates various 
      controls in the cockpit. 

                                  KARA 
                    Viper one-seven, copy that.  Throttle down, tube safe. 

      The HATCH OPENS and Tyrol comes running in with Socinus, and Prosna.  Kara pops the 
      Canopy, pulls off her helmet and throws a deadly look at Tyrol, who's already got the engine 
      cowling off and poking around inside. 

                                  KARA (cont'd) 
                    Three frakking aborts, Chief.   

                                  TYROL 
                    We're on it, sir. 
                          (to Socinus) 
                    It's the pressure reg valve again.                                       SOCINUS 
                    We should pull it. 

                                  PROSNA 
                    Don't have a spare. 

      Suddenly Gaeta's voice comes over the speakers. 

                                  GAETA (V.O.) 
                    Attention:  inbound Dradis contact, rated highly probable 
                    enemy fighter.  All hands stand-by for battle maneuvers. 

                                  KARA 
                          (to Tyrol) 
                    LET'S GO! 

      She puts her helmet back on, LISTENS to the wireless chatter while Tyrol struggles to fix the 
      engine.  It's nerve-wracking, and Kara can barely restrain herself from leaping out of the cockpit 
      and strangling someone. 

                                  PILOT #1 (WIRELESS) 
                    This is Speedster, I have lead.  All Vipers form up on 
                    me. 

                                  SOCINUS 
                    What if we just pull the valve and bypass the whole 
                    system? 

                                  GAETA (WIRELESS) 
                      Speedster/Galactica.  Contact bearing 234-189, speed 7 
                    decimal five, range 601 and closing. 

                                  PROSNA 
                    Can't do that, the relay'll blow a-- 

                                  PILOT #1 (WIRELESS) 
                    Copy that.  We've acquired the target. 
                          (beat) 
                    I have weapons lock.  Firing.      

                                  SOCINUS 
                    It'll hold, I'm telling you.  I put that relay in myself. 

                                  PILOT #2 (WIRELESS) 
                    No good -- damn!  Look at him move. 

                                  KARA 
                    How much longer, Chief? 

                                  PILOT #3 (WIRELESS) 
                    I can't get a lock. 

                                  TYROL 
                    Okay, pull the valve.       INT. COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      Adama is near the HELM CONSOLE.  The Helm is controlled by FOUR ENLISTED.  Unlike a 
      submarine set-up, they do not "fly" Galactica with yokes and steering wheels.  Each of them have 
      two joystick/handgrip controllers mounted on the arms of their chairs, which control 8 thruster 
      burners positioned at different points along Galactica's hull.  Directly in front of them are 
      complicated panels of readouts monitoring the amount of thrust each burner is putting out.   

      Tigh is over at the Tactical console and everyone is listening to the Viper wireless chatter while 
      Adama tries to maneuver his ship out of harm's way. 

                                  PILOT #4 (WIRELESS) 
                    Firing.  Miss! 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (calls to Tigh) 
                    Engines all ahead full! 

                                  PILOT #1 (WIRELESS) 
                    Watch it, watch it!  

                                  TIGH 
                    Ahead full, sir.  Engines report ahead full. 

                                  PILOT #3 (WIRELESS) 
                    I've got him!  No I don't. 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (to helmsmen) 
                    Bow up half, forward right one quarter, stern left full. 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA - VARIOUS SHOTS 

      Cutting around the ship to see the THRUSTERS FIRING.  The Galactica ANGLES UP and 
      TURNS to the LEFT. 

      INT. LAUNCH TUBE 

      An AUDIBLE GROAN of METAL as the ship twists and turns.  Socinus and Prosna are gently 
      pulling the recalcitrant VALVE out of the Viper engine under Tyrol's watchful eye.  Socinus finally 
      pulls the valve and Prosna replaces the cowling. 

                                  PILOT #2 (WIRELESS)  
                    I can't get a shot! 

                                  PROSNA 
                    Ready! 

                                  PILOT #1 (WIRELESS) 
                    Snowball, do you have a shot? 

                                  TYROL 
                    Clear the tube! 

      Tyrol, Socinus, and Prosna race out of the tube.                                   PILOT #3 (WIRELESS) 
                    Trying... Damn!  How does he move like that? 

                                  KARA 
                    Galactica/Viper one-seven ready! 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA 

      Now TURNING in another direction, giving us a look at the port launch tubes again. 

                                  PILOT #1 (WIRELESS) 
                    Come around again, try to -- 

                                  LAUNCH OFFICER (WIRELESS) 
                    ... interval check, thrust positive and... steady.  Good-
                    bye. 

      Kara's Viper comes BLASTING out of the launch tube. 

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

      1 -- EXT. SPACE - KARA'S VIPER  

      Racing away from Galactica. 

      2 -- INT. KARA'S VIPER 

      Kara pushing her Viper as fast as it'll go. 

      3 -- THE VIPERS 

      Are FIRING and dashing about, trying to hit the constantly moving target of...  

      4 -- THE CYLON FIGHTER 

      The same kind of fighter that destroyed the Galactica squadron earlier.  Beneath the Cylon 
      fighter, a door SLIDES OPEN, revealing FIVE MISSILES with distinctive WARHEADS. 

      5 -- INT. GALACTICA - COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      A BUZZER goes off -- Dualla checks it. 

                                  KARA (WIRELESS) 
                    This is Starbuck, Keep him boxed in!  I got a shot right 
                    up the gut. 

                                  DUALLA 
                      Radiological alarm!   

                                  PILOT #1 (WIRELESS) 
                    Copy that.  You've got the best angle. 

                                  TIGH 
                          (to Adama) 
                    He's got a nuke!       4 -- The Red Light on the Cylon fighter EMITS its BEAM directly at Kara's Viper. 

      2 -- The beam washes over her Viper, but unlike the earlier scene with the ceremonial squadron, 
      there is no loss of power, no dying of her systems.  Nothing happens.  

                                  KARA 
                    What the hell was that? 

      The HEADS-UP DISPLAY on Kara's canopy shows the Cylon fighter right in the center circle and 
      there's a TONE indicating target lock.  She squeezes the GUN TRIGGER. 

      1 -- TRACERS leap out toward the Cylon. 

      4 -- The Cylon fighter Is HIT and EXPLODES, just as it LAUNCHES its MISSILES. 

      1 -- Kara's Viper FIRES again.   

      4 -- TWO missiles are destroyed, but a THIRD one gets away. 

      2 -- Kara's head whips around as the missile streaks right past her. 

                                  KARA (cont'd) 
                    Shit!  Galactica -- you've got an inbound nuke!  All 
                    Vipers -- BREAK BREAK BREAK!! 

      5 -- Adama hears the warning. 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (to helmsmen) 
                    Right bow, left stern -- emergency full! 

      6 -- EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA 

      The Vipers race away as Galactica TWISTS and TURNS to avoid a direct hit but it's not enough 
    to get completely away.  

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                    TO: 

 

      6 -- The nuclear warhead EXPLODES less than a mile away from Galactica's starboard bow and 
    the resulting energy BLOOM results in a... 

                                                                            WHITE OUT. 


                                      END OF ACT SIX 
                                        ACT SEVEN 

      FADE IN: 
 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA - BOW       The ship is slowly SPINNING in space, clearly not under control.  The PORT FLIGHT POD is 
      partially CRUMPLED.  (The flight pods are the massive "skis" on either side of the ship.)  It's 
      VENTING AIR, FUEL, and other GASES to space from various openings in the hull.   

                                  KARA (WIRELESS) 
                      Galactica/Starbuck, if you're reading me, the forward 
                    section of the port flight pod has sustained heavy 
                    damage.    

      INT. KARA'S VIPER - OVER SHOULDER CAMERA 

      Kara is circling Galactica and looking at the damage, which can be seen through the canopy.  
      Another BULKHEAD COLLAPSES and violently VENTS debris into space. 

                                  KARA  
                    Galactica, you're getting violent decompressions all 
                    along the port flight pod.  Do you read me?  Galactica!   

      INT. GALACTICA - COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

    Lit only by EMERGENCY LIGHTS, most consoles are either not functioning or flickering with 
      garbage data.  A couple of enlisted are WOUNDED and getting first aid.  Adama and Tigh are at 
    the DAMAGE CONTROL station, which has a table top covered with schematic CUTAWAY 
      DIAGRAMS of Galactica, and various phone handsets just beneath the table.   

      DECK HANDS keep rushing in with written MESSAGES for Tigh, who is hurriedly making marks 
      on the diagram with a grease pencil to indicate damage as reports come in.  Adama puts down a 
      phone handset. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Radiation levels within norms -- the hull plating kept out 
                    most of the hard stuff.   

      Gaeta comes over from the Helm console. 

                                  GAETA 
                          (to Adama) 
                    Right stern thruster is locked open.  All bow thrusters 
                    nonresponsive.  We're in an uncontrolled lateral 
                    clockwise spin.  

                                  ADAMA 
                    Run a DC party up to aux control, cut the fuel line to that 
                    stern thruster. 

      Gaeta rushes off.  Adama bends over the diagram, which is now heavily marked.  Tigh is a little 
      unsteady, trying to focus on the job, but his nerves have been seriously jangled. 

                                  TIGH  
                    Okay.  Uh... we've got, uh... buckled supports all along 
                    the port flight pod and chain reaction decompressions 
                    occurring everywhere forward of frame two... two-fifty.   

                                  ADAMA 
                          (ominous)                     That's a problem... 

      Dualla comes in through a HATCH, pulling a PHONE LINE behind her.  She has a nasty CUT on 
    her head, which is trickling blood down the side of her face, but she hasn't noticed yet.  She 
      hands Tigh a scrap of paper. 

                                  DUALLA 
                    Message from Captain Kelly at DC 4. 

      She plugs the line into the damage control console, picks up a handset.  Tigh focuses on the 
      message, marks the diagram. 

                                  DUALLA (cont'd) 
                          (to handset) 
                    Test!  Test!  Frak!  

      Nothing.  She looks under the console.  

                                  ADAMA 
                    Forget it, D -- we got lines down everywhere.  Get that 
                    head wound looked at. 

      Dualla touches her head, is surprised at the blood, moves off to get it looked at.    

                                  TIGH  
                    All right, Kelly says he's got three uncontrolled fires... in 
                    the port flight pod... I guess that's why he hasn't been 
                    able to stop the decompressions. 

                                  ADAMA  
                          (indicates diagram) 
                    If the decomps continue along this axis they'll reach the 
                    hangar deck.  Paul, get down there, take personal 
                    command of the DC teams on the scene. 

      Tigh freezes -- looks at Adama. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Me? 

      And there's a moment here when Adama has to put his faith in Tigh and Tigh has to put his faith 
    in himself.  He leans in close to Tigh where no one else can hear. 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (sotto) 
                    Now or never, Paul.  You're either the XO or you're not.   

      Tigh takes a beat, then rushes out the hatch. 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA 

      Another bulkhead EXPLODES and DECOMPRESSES.  Then ANOTHER. 

      INT. GALACTICA - PASSAGEWAYS/GANGWAYS        Tigh races through the ship, running through blacked-out sections, some with emergency lighting, 
      some with GAS leaking, some with CASUALTIES waiting for first aid.  It's a hellish gauntlet just to 
    get to... 

      INT. GALACTICA - DAMAGE CONTROL STATION  

      A small, cramped closet with a damage control table like the one in CIC, but with a diagram 
      limited to the flight pod compartments.  It's DARK, SMOKY, and it's noisy as hell, with the 
      SOUND of EXPLOSIONS for punctuation.  CASUALTIES are being carried down the 
      passageway just outside the door.  Captain Kelly (LSO) is marking up the diagram and giving 
      orders to Tyrol.   

                                  KELLY 
                    Tell him to secure the ox lines on the starboard relay! 

      Tyrol rushes OUT just as Tigh ENTERS and goes to the diagram. 

                                  TIGH  
                          (points to diagram) 
                    There's structural buckling all along this line!  We've 
                    gotta get those fires out! 

                                  KELLY 
                    I know-I know!  But fire suppressant's down.  Water 
                    mains are down.  We're trying to fight it with hand-held 
                    gear, but-- 

      Tyrol rushes back inside. 

                                  TYROL 
                    Got another decompression in the launch bay!    

                                  KELLY 
                          (to Tigh) 
                    What are your orders, sir?  Sir? 

      Tigh hesitates.  Kelly and Tyrol exchange a look.  Kelly takes over. 

                                  KELLY (cont'd) 
                          (to Tyrol) 
                    Bring your DC teams in from the landing bay, get'em 
                    hand gear and send them into the fire zone. 

    But then Tigh finally rallies. 

                                  TIGH 
                    No.  No... we're going to seal off everything forward of 
                    frame 30 and start an emergency vent of all 
                      compartments. 

                                  TYROL  
                    Wait -- I've got at least a hundred people trapped up 
                    there behind frame 34!  I need a minute to get'em out! 

                                  TIGH                     No time -- seal it off!  Now! 

                                  KELLY 
                    Sir! 

                                  TYROL 
                    They'll only need a minute! 

                                  TIGH 
                    We don't have a minute!  If the fire reaches the hangar 
                    deck, it'll ignite the fuel lines and we'll lose the ship!  DO 
                    IT! 

      Kelly hesitates, then goes to a wall console with COVERED EMERGENCY breakers and 
      switches.  He lifts the cover on two of the switches, breaks the seals... and throws the switches. 

      INT. PASSAGEWAY - INTERSECTION 

      A MASSIVE FIRE IS roaring down the passageway.  DECK HANDS are carrying casualties 
      through the SMOKE-CHOKED narrow passageway.  Prosna, Socinus and Cally are trying to 
      battle the blaze with hand extinguishers, but it's a losing battle.  Socinus has a FIREFIGHTING 
      SUIT on, Cally is struggling to get her own suit secured, but Prosna only has his duty uniform on. 

      Suddenly a KLAXON SOUNDS and MASSIVE DOORS SLIDE down from the overhead, sealing 
      them off from the rest of the ship.  Deck Hands scramble to make it out in time, but only a few 
      make it.  Socinus and Cally see the door close, but Prosna is too busy fighting the fire to even 
      notice they're trapped. 

      INT. DAMAGE CONTROL STATION  

      Kelly watches the mechanical indicators go from GREEN to RED. 

                                  KELLY 
                    Sealed. 

      Tigh steps forward himself, breaks the seal on the small doors covering the emergency vent keys.  
    He turns the keys. 

      EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA - FLIGHT POD 

      DOZENS of emergency HATCHES OPEN and vent AIR directly into space.  BALLS of FLAME 
      surge out with the rushing air, but then are snuffed OUT.   

      INT. DAMAGE CONTROL STATION  

      Kelly and Tigh watch different gauges and needles in the DC station.  The distant SOUND of the 
      VENTING compartments can be heard... then FADES AWAY.  The ship becomes much quieter. 

                                  KELLY 
                          (off gauges) 
                    Venting complete. 
                          (beat) 
                    Fires out. 

      Tigh looks at Kelly and Tyrol, knows what they're thinking.                                   TIGH  
                    If they remembered their training... they had their suits 
                    on... and they were braced for a possible vent action.   

                                  TYROL 
                    A lot of rooks in there. 

                                  TIGH 
                    None of us are rooks anymore. 

      EXT. KOBOL - AIRSTRIP - DAY 

    On an abandoned emergency airstrip somewhere outside of Caprica City, Sharon's damaged 
      Raptor is parked in the sun.  The area is OPEN, with gently ROLLING HILLS.  Helo is propped 
      underneath the Raptor, a blood-soaked bandage strapped to his side, while Sharon works on the 
    fuel lines within the engine mounting.  Helo is looking off toward something o.c.  

                                  HELO 
                    That's six. 

      Sharon looks out toward FIVE MUSHROOM CLOUDS which dot the horizon.  A SIXTH is just 
      reaching up into the sky. 

                                  HELO (cont'd) 
                    How you coming on that fuel line? 

                                  SHARON 
                    Almost there.  We'll be airborne pretty soon. 

                                  HELO 
                    Good.  Gotta get back in the fight. 

      Sharon tears her eyes away from the mushroom clouds. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Yeah.  Back in the fight. 

      Sharon goes back to work and Helo stares out at the mushroom clouds.  Then he sees 
      something -- 

                                  HELO 
                    Sharon.  Get your sidearm. 

      Sharon twists around, looks in the same direction -- pales.  A MOB of people are running across 
    the distant HILLS.  And they're heading this way. 

      EXT. HILLS - DAY 

      FIFTY desperate people.  Some half-dressed.  Some carrying suitcases.  Some hurt.  A man 
      carrying a violin.  A woman dragging a chair.  All of them running away from the mushroom 
      clouds behind them and all of them determined to get to that one spacecraft on the airstrip. 

      A man in the crowd trips, falls, pushes himself to his hands and knees.  No one even glances at 
      him.  The man is Gaius Baltar.  He gets up, keeps running with the rest of them.       INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

      Laura is in the cockpit, looking out the window with the Pilot and Co-Pilot.  Thru the window, we 
    see the heavily cratered MOON seen earlier.  The transport is in orbit and they're searching for 
      something. 

                                  PILOT 
                    Should be able to see him by now... 

                                  LAURA 
                    There.  Something flashed over there... 

      They squint in that direction.  There's another FLASH of light off of metal. 

                                  PILOT 
                    That's him. 

      The Transport alters course toward the object. 

                                  LAURA 
                    Wireless? 

                                  PILOT 
                          (tries, then shakes head) 
                    Military channels are still jammed.   

                                  LAURA 
                    Bring him in cargo bay two. 

      EXT. SPACE - VIPER & TRANSPORT 

    As the Transport maneuvers above the Viper and OPENS one of the pairs of CARGO BAY doors. 

      INT. LEE'S VIPER - CONSOLE POV 

      Lee is looking UP at the hulk of the Transport looming above.   

                                  LEE 
                    Easy... easy... not too fast... that's it... 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - CARGO BAY 

      Moments later.  Lee's Viper is sitting in the middle of a large empty Cargo Bay.  Lee OPENS his 
      canopy.  At the same time, the cargo bay hatch OPENS and Doral ENTERS along with a couple 
    of PASSENGERS and FIRST AID KIT.   

                                  DORAL 
                    Are you all right, Captain? 

                                  LEE 
                    Fine. 

                                  DORAL 
                    You don't know how glad I am to see you.                                    LEE  
                    Why's that? 

                                  DORAL 
                    Well, personally I would feel a lot better if someone 
                    qualified were in charge around here. 

                                  LEE 
                    Something wrong with your pilot? 

                                  DORAL 
                    He's not the one giving orders. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - PASSENGER CABIN 

      A few minutes later, Lee ENTERS the cabin with Doral.  Laura has turned the forward seats into a 
      crude command center.  She's going over a diagram of the transport with the Pilot, while Billy 
      makes notes.  Responsibility and authority has begun to change Laura, and we see her rising to 
    the challenge by her calm, steady, commanding presence. 

                                  LAURA 
                    What if we transferred the L containers from bay three to 
                    bay four?  Then we could use one, two, and three for 
                      passengers. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    It's doable.  Lot of heavy lifting without dock loaders, 
                    though. 

                                  LAURA 
                    A little hard work is just what people need right now. 
                          (notices Lee) 
                    Captain.  Good to see you again. 

                                  LEE 
                    Likewise. 
                          (to Pilot) 
                    Thanks for the lift. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Thank her.  She's the one insisted we go after you.   

                                  LEE 
                    How'd you know where to look? 

                                  LAURA 
                          (still looking over diagram) 
                    You had to go somewhere, Kobol was too far, and the 
                    nearest celestial body was the Trevor moon. 
                          (looks up) 
                    Your ship secure? 

                                  LEE 
                    Yes.       Laura throws a look at the Pilot, who just nods and heads back toward the cockpit. 

                                  LAURA 
                          (to Billy) 
                    Start the cargo transfer and then prep bay three for 
                    survivors. 

                                  BILLY 
                    Yes, ma'am. 

    He moves off. 

                                  LEE 
                    Survivors? 

                                  LAURA 
                    As soon as the attack began, the government ordered a 
                    complete air/space ground stop on all civilian ships.  So 
                    now we've got hundreds of stranded ships in the solar 
                    system.  Everything from freighters to passenger liners 
                    to shopping vessels to school ships -- you name it.  
                    Some are damaged, some are lost, some are losing 
                    power.  We have enough space to accommodate up to 
                    five hundred people and we're going to need every bit of 
                    it. 

                                  DORAL 
                    But we don't even know what the tactical situation is out 
                    there -- 

                                  LAURA 
                    The tactical situation is that we're losing.  Right, 
                    Captain? 

      She says it firmly and looks him right in the eye.  He finds it impossible to lie to her.  

                                  LEE 
                    Right. 

                                  LAURA 
                    Then we pick up the people we can and try to find a safe 
                    haven to put down.  Captain, I'd like you to look over the 
                    navigational charts for a likely place to hide from the 
                    Cylons. 
                          (heads for cockpit) 
                    That's all. 

      She EXITS to the cockpit.  Doral looks to Lee. 

                                  LEE 
                    Lady's in charge. 

      Lee heads for the cockpit as well. 

                                                                              CUT TO:     AN EXPLOSION 

      Sends up a MOUND of DIRT and ROCK into the air.  REVEAL: 

      EXT. KOBOL - AIRSTRIP - DAY 

      The MOB of people STOPS as the DEBRIS rains down on them.  Sharon is standing in front of 
    the Raptor with her sidearm out.  Helo is lying on the ground, also with his weapon at the ready.  
      Helo FIRES AGAIN (the gun does not emit a energy bolt effect -- it fires an explosive projectile) 
      and the Mob falls back a few steps.   

                                  HELO 
                    That's as close as you get!  Okay?  Let's just settle down 
                    here... settle down and no one gets hurt... 

      The Mob doesn't like it -- people curse and yell, but they don't charge either.  It's a hostile, 
      extremely desperate group of people.  Baltar is in the middle of the crowd.  A MAN speaks up. 

                                  MAN 
                    I have to get out of here!  I'll give you fifty thousand 
                    cubits!   

                                  WOMAN 
                    Sixty thousand! 

      Other voices start chiming in, in a sudden bidding war. 

                                  HELO 
                    We're not taking -- WE'RE NOT TAKING MONEY!! 
                          (they quiet) 
                    This isn't a rescue ship.  This is a military vessel and 
                    we're--  

                                  MAN #2 
                    You can't leave us here!  Look at that!   

    He gestures toward the mushroom clouds -- the people YELL and SCREAM.  The crowd 
      SURGES forward, Sharon FIRES over their heads and they fall back again.  A WOMAN with a 
      BOY pushes her way to the front of the crowd. 

      THE BOY 

    Is six-years old.  He's he same boy we saw in the Colonel's PHOTO on Armistice Station.  The 
      Woman pleads with Sharon. 

                                  WOMAN 
                    For God's sake -- take my nephew!  Please! 

                                  MAN #2 
                    What about my wife! 

      More SHOUTS and SCREAMS for help.  Sharon and Helo exchange a look -- this is getting out 
    of control fast. 

                                  SHARON                         Alright-alright-ALRIGHT!! 
                          (they quiet again) 
                    Children first -- children! 

      FIVE CHILDREN (ages 7-15) are brought to the fore, some by their parents, others just pushed 
      up through the crowd. 

                                  SHARON (cont'd) 
                    All right.  The kids go...  and we can take three more 
                    people. 

      YELLS of protest, but Helo shouts them down. 

                                  HELO 
                    That's the maximum load if we're going to break orbit.   

                                  MAN 
                    Who chooses the three?  You? 

      Murmurs of unhappiness at that idea. 

                                  SHARON 
                    No one chooses.  No one chooses! 
                          (beat) 
                    Lottery.   

      She glances at Helo -- he nods agreement.  

                                  SHARON (cont'd) 
                    Everyone gets a number.  We put the numbers in a 
                    box... pull out three.  That's it.  No arguing, no appeal.   

                                  HELO 
                    And I will shoot the first person who tries to board this 
                    ship without a winning number. 

      They don't like it, but there's acquiesence in the air. 

                                  SHARON  
                    Helo... get your flight manual... tear out the pages. 

      EXT. TRANSPORT SHIP  

      The Transport ship is underway. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

      Suddenly, there's a BEEPING in the cockpit.  The pilot looks at the console, then frowns. 

                                  LAURA 
                    What is it? 

                                  LEE 
                    Never seen a signal on that bandwidth before.                                     TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    That's an governmental emergency channel.  It's 
                    reserved for the President. 

      The Pilot hits a button and they can hear the message. 

                                  VOICE 
                    --tinuity of Government Act.  All ministers, department 
                    secretaries, and division heads now go to Case Orange.  
                    Repeat.  This is an official notification broadcast as per 
                    section 35, article 17 of the Emergency Continuity of 
                    Government Act.  All ministers, department secretaries... 

      The message repeats as all the blood drains from Laura's face.  Her voice is barely above a 
      whisper. 

                                  LAURA 
                    It's an automated message. 
                          (beat) 
                    Designed to be sent out in case the... in case the 
                    President, the Vice-President, and most of the cabinet 
                    are dead or incapacitated. 

      A long beat as the gravity of that statement hits everyone in the cockpit.  They all stare at her 
      while she tries to absorb the implications of what she just said. 

                                  LAURA (cont'd) 
                          (to Pilot) 
                    I need you to -- I need you to send my ID code on the 
                    exact same frequency:  D, as in dog, dash, 456, dash, 
                    345, dash, A as in apple.   

                                  PILOT 
                    Yes, ma'am. 

      Laura leaves the cockpit and Lee follows her. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - PASSENGER CABIN 

      Laura is in a seat, staring out the window, her shock almost palpable.  Lee sits down next to her. 

                                  LEE 
                    How far down...? 

                                  LAURA 
                    I'm forty-third in line of succession. 
                          (long beat) 
                    I know all forty-two ahead of me.  From the President 
                    down.  Most of us served in his first administration... 
                    some came with him from the mayor's office... I was 
                    there on his first campaign.  Never really liked politics.  
                    Kept telling myself I was getting out after his first term.  
                    But he had a way about him... you just couldn't say no to 
                    him.   
                          (beat)                     You just couldn't say no.    

      Her feelings threaten to overwhelm her, but then she pulls them back down and reasserts control.   

      The Pilot ENTERS.  He's holding a PRINTOUT in his hand and he looks stunned.  She looks up, 
      sees his eyes, doesn't have to read the paper, but takes it anyway.  She looks down, reads the 
      message carefully, then folds it and puts it in a pocket. 

                                  LAURA (cont'd) 
                    We'll need a priest.   

                                                                              CUT TO: 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - PASSENGER CABIN 

      A short time later.  Laura is standing in the middle of the room, while the entire crew surrounds 
      her.  Elosha holds a small book and stands before Laura. 

                                  ELOSHA 
                    If you'll raise your right hand and repeat after me... I, 
                    Laura Roslin, do now avow and affirm... 

                                  LAURA 
                    I, Laura Roslin, do now avow and affirm... 

                                  ELOSHA 
                    That I take the office of President of the Twelve Colonies 
                    of Kobol, without any moral reservation or mental 
                    evasion... 

                                  LAURA 
                    That I take the office of President of the Twelve Colonies 
                    of the Planet Kobol, without any moral reservation or 
                    mental evasion... 

      We pull back and the hushed scene should remind us of another ceremony which took place on a 
      crowded plane in Dallas, 1963. 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 


                                    END OF ACT SEVEN 
                                        ACT EIGHT 

      FADE IN: 

      EXT. KOBOL - AIRSTRIP - DAY 

      The lottery has begun.  Sharon pulls scraps of the shredded flight manual out of a tool box.  The 
      crowd is silent, anxious, each of them knowing their individual chances are slight, but also 
      knowing this is the only chance.  The children selected earlier are standing in the front, saying 
      good-bye to their parents or just staring at the spacecraft. 

                                  SHARON 
                      One-twenty-seven.  One-two-seven.       An immediate SQUEAL of joy from a WOMAN toward the back of the crowd.  People make room 
    for her as she goes toward the miracle of her rescue.   

      She passes right by Baltar, and we DROP OFF on him, clutching his own scrap of paper along 
      with everyone else.  He shifts his weight from foot to foot, has trouble standing still.  Keeps 
      glancing at the giant mushroom clouds on the horizon. 

    All the lottery winners are being herded onto the Raptor by Helo, who's propped against the 
      hatch. 

                                  SHARON (cont'd) 
                    Last one. 
                          (pulls out paper) 
                    Forty-seven.  Four-seven. 

      The number in Baltar's trembling hand is 188.  He just stares at it, afraid to look up and face his 
      fate.  People are craning around, trying to see who has the winning number, but no one is 
      shouting with euphoria yet.   

                                  OLD WOMAN 
                    Excuse me...? 

      Baltar looks up to see a white-haired WOMAN in her 70's standing next to him in a faded print 
      dress.    

                                  OLD WOMAN (cont'd) 
                    I forgot my glasses somewhere... I don't remember 
                    where exactly, but... could you read this for me? 

    He looks at the paper in her hand -- 47.  He looks back up at her slightly confused and apologetic 
      face.  She only has one shoe on.  She'll believe anything he tells her.  Baltar stares back into 
      those eyes... he reaches out for the paper... and as we wonder just what he'll do -- 

                                  HELO'S VOICE 
                    Hey, aren't you Gaius Baltar? 

      Suddenly everyone is looking at the celebrity in their midst.  Whatever he might or might not have 
      done a moment ago, the opportunity is gone.  He pulls his hand away from the winning number, 
    his paranoia now in full cry. 

                                  BALTAR 
                    Yes, why?  I haven't done anything. 

                                  HELO 
                    Could you come up here, please? 

                                  BALTAR 
                    All right. 
                          (beat) 
                    This woman has number forty-seven.   
                          (to Old Woman) 
                    Come on.     As Baltar and the Old Woman walk to the Raptor, the crowd reacts with a universal groan of 
      dismay and despair.  Some are crying, some sit down as if the wind were sucked out their lungs.  
      Others just stand and stare.  Sharon watches them, her sidearm still in hand. 

                                  SHARON 
                          (sotto, to Helo) 
                    What're you doing? 

                                  HELO 
                          (sotto) 
                    Giving up my seat. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Like hell. 

                                  HELO 
                    A civilian should go in my place.   

                                  SHARON 
                    You're going. 

                                  HELO 
                    Look at those clouds, Sharon.  Look at those clouds and 
                    tell me this isn't the end of... everything. 

                                  SHARON 
                    Helo... 

                                  HELO 
                    Whatever future is left is going to depend on the people 
                    who survive.  Give me one reason why I'm a better 
                    choice than one of the greatest minds of our time? 

      Baltar and the Old Woman have arrived at the front of the crowd.  Sharon looks at him for a long 
      beat.  Baltar, of course, hasn't heard any of this and just looks back at her with genuine 
      confusion.   

                                  HELO (cont'd) 
                    You can do this without me, Sharon.  I know you can.  
                    You've proven it. 

      She struggles with it for a moment, then makes the choice. 

                                  SHARON 
                          (low, to Baltar) 
                    Get on board. 

      Baltar gapes at her for a beat, then shuts his mouth and clambers aboard the Raptor with the Old 
      Woman.  He glances back at the crowd and sees -- Number Six watching him placidly.  Baltar 
      looks again -- then she's gone.  Was she even there in the first place? 

      The Crowd notices that Baltar's going aboard and they start to get upset -- they don't like the 
      sudden change in rules -- things start to get ugly. 

                                  CROWD                           (various) 
                    Hey what's this?  What's going on?  Why is he going?  
                    What're you doing?  I'm important too!  That's not fair!  
                    Start over!  etc. 

                                  HELO 
                          (to Sharon) 
                    I think you better go. 

      Sharon pauses just long enough to shake his hand, then climbs into the hatch.  People are 
      starting to edge toward the ship.  A MAN RUSHES forward and Helo SHOOTS HIM DEAD.  The 
      crowd hesitates, then the Raptor ENGINES ROAR to life and the Raptor rises into the air like a 
      modern day Harrier jet and then ANGLES UP and roars off into the sky. 

                                                                        MULTI-SCREEN: 

      1 -- EXT. SPACE - GALACTICA & VIPER 

      Kara's Viper makes a pass over the now stabilized ship. 

                                  KARA (WIRELESS) 
                      Galactica/Starbuck -- good to hear your voice again, D. 

      2 -- INT. GALACTICA - COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      Main power has been restored.  Normal lighting is back.  Tigh ENTERS, heads for the far corner 
    of the room.   

                                  DUALLA 
                          (to mic) 
                    Same here, Starbuck.   You may rejoin combat patrol at 
                    this time. 

                                  KARA (WIRELESS) 
                    Copy that, Galactica.  Starbuck out. 

      3 -- INT. GALACTICA - PASSAGEWAY 

      The FIRE is OUT and BODIES are being carried out of the passageway by Deck Hands. 

      2 -- Tigh goes to Adama, who's looking over a MAP of a PLANET SURFACE at the 
        NAVIGATOR'S STATION.  This area covers one entire corner of the CIC and is dedicated to 
      plotting the movements of the ship.  There's a plotting table where charts can be laid out, and the 
      wall consoles are covered with the most advanced COMPUTERS available on Galactica (think 
      Apollo/Skylab era). 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (to Tigh) 
                    What's the final count? 

                                  TIGH 
                    Twenty-six walked out.  Eighty-five didn't. 

      3 -- Tyrol comes down the Passageway, looking at dead bodies.  He comes to Cally and Socinus, 
      both still wearing their fire-fighting gear and sitting next to the dead body of Prosna.       2 -- Adama takes in the heavy toll.  He turns back to the PLANET MAP.  There's also a THREE-
      RING folder OPEN next to the chart. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    There's a munitions depot in the Ragnar anchorage. 
                          (re: 3-ring folder) 
                    The book says they have three Class B weapons coils in 
                    cyro-storage -- or at least they did during the inventory 
                    two years ago. 

      3 -- Tyrol picks up the dead body of Prosna and carries it down the Passageway.  Cally and 
      Socinus sit there for a moment, then get up and follow him. 

                                                                  COLLAPSE SCREENS 
                                                                                  TO: 

      INT. COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

                                  TIGH 
                    Thought the Ragnar anchorage was scrapped. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Should've been.  Budget cuts kept the Ministry from 
                    getting out there and taking it apart. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Nice to see budget cuts helping for a change.  
                          (beat) 
                    It's supposed to be a royal bitch to anchor a ship there.  

                                  ADAMA 
                          (nods) 
                    One of the reasons they decided to scrap it.   

                                  TIGH  
                    Well... at least we know we'll be safe from the Cylons at 
                    Ragnar. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    That's the theory. 
                          (off his look) 
                    It's never been put to the test. 

      They both mull over whatever that means for a moment.  Then Adama leads the way over to the 
      large TACTICAL display, which is even more marked up with symbols indicating Cylon and (a 
      few) Colonial units. 

                                  ADAMA (cont'd) 
                    Two problems.  First, Ragnar is at least three days away 
                    at best speed.  Second, the entire Cylon fleet is between 
                    here and there. 

      Tigh looks at the display for a long beat, then notices that Adama is looking at him with an 
      expectant expression.  Takes him a moment, then he realizes what Adama is thinking.                                   TIGH  
                          (are you crazy?) 
                    You want to make a Jump? 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Don't want to. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Because a sane man wouldn't.  It's been what -- twenty 
                    years since this tub made a Jump? 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Twenty-five. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Twenty-five.  Probably rats living in the FTL relays.   

                                  ADAMA 
                    Hope not.  Hate the smell of burned rat. 
                          (beat, then formally) 
                    Colonel Tigh... you will please plot a Hyperlight Jump 
                    from this position to the orbit of Ragnar. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Yes, sir. 
                          (beat) 
                    You know, I'm pretty sure this qualifies as a Combat 
                    Jump.   

                                  ADAMA 
                    I'll be sure to put everyone up for their silver wings. 

      They share a wry look, then Tigh moves back toward Navigation. 

                                  TIGH 
                          (picks up phone handset) 
                      Engineering/Combat.  Please spin up FTL drives One 
                    and Two. 
                          (hangs up) 
                    Mister Gaeta!  Break out the FTL tables and warm up 
                    the computers... we're making a Jump! 

      Surprised and excited looks throughout CIC.  No one can quite believe it.  There's a hubub of 
      activity suddenly.  Dualla approaches Adama with a message printout.   

                                  DUALLA 
                    Priority message, sir. 

      Adama reads the message and his expression tightens.   

                                  ADAMA 
                    Admiral Nagala's dead.  The battlestar Atlantia's been 
                    destroyed. 

      Everything in the room comes to a stop.                                   ADAMA (cont'd) 
                    So's the Triton, the Solaria, the Columbia... the list goes 
                    on. 

      A quiet beat. 

                                  TIGH 
                    Who's senior officer?  Who's in command? 

      Adama looks at Tigh, who realizes that Adama is senior. 

                                  TIGH (cont'd) 
                    Guess we're gonna have to postpone your retirement 
                    party... 

      Adama takes a private beat as the weight of his new responsibilities presses down on him.  Then 
      he moves to Dualla. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    Send the following message to all Colonial military units.  
                    Use the priority one channel.  Message begins:  Am 
                    taking command of Fleet...   

      EXT. SPACE - TRANSPORT & LINER 

      The Transport is approaching the PASSENGER LINER, which is essentially a space-going luxury 
      cruise ship.   

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT (WIRELESS) 
                    Gemon Liner 1701, this is Colonial Heavy 798.  No -- 
                    strike that. 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

      The Pilot, Lee, and Laura.  The Pilot looks at Laura. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    This is Colonial One.   

      Laura glances at Lee, a little embarrassed, but Lee just nods -- it's her due. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT (cont'd) 
                          (to mic) 
                    We have you in sight.  Will approach your starboard 
                    docking hatch. 

      A BUZZER goes off, Lee hits a button, a message PRINTS OUT. 

                                  WIRELESS VOICE 
                    Copy that, Colonial One.  And thank the Lords of Kobol 
                    you're here.  We've been without main power for over 
                    two hours now.   

      Lee tears off the printout, reads it then reacts in surprise.                                   LAURA 
                    What is it? 

                                  LEE  
                          (reads) 
                    "To all Colonial units:  Am taking command of fleet.  All 
                    units ordered to rendezvous at Ragnar anchorage for 
                    regroup and counterattack.  Acknowledge by same 
                    encryption protocol.  Adama." 

    He sits back, thinks over the import of that message.  Laura takes the printout and looks it over. 

                                  LAURA 
                          (to Lee) 
                    Captain Apollo, send a message to Commander Adama 
                    informing him that we're engaged in rescue operations 
                    and require his assistance.  Ask how many hospital beds 
                    they have available, and long will it take them to get 
                    here.   

                                  LEE 
                          (hesitates) 
                    I, uh... 

                                  LAURA 
                    Yes? 

                                  LEE 
                    I'm not sure he's going to respond very well to that 
                    request 

                                  LAURA 
                    Tell him this comes directly from the President of the 
                    Colonies and it's not a request. 

                                  LEE  
                    Yes, sir.   
                          (she turns to go) 
                    And uh, sir?  Apollo's just my callsign.  My name is Lee.  
                    Lee Adama.   

                                  LAURA 
                    I know who you are.  But Captain Apollo has a nice ring 
                    to it, don't you think? 

      She smiles at him, then EXITS. 

      INT. GALACTICA - COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      Tigh and Gaeta are overseeing TWO GROUPS of ENLISTED personnel as they ENTER 
      information into the FTL computers at the Navigation station.  Tigh and Gaeta each have 3-Ring 
      laminated CHECKLISTs, and each Enlisted person has their own smaller checklists as well. 

                                  GAETA 
                    CMC - on.                           (beat) 
                    ISS - on and aligned. 
                          (beat) 
                    BMAG mode - 3. 
                          (beat) 
                    Coupling - Resolved. 
                          (beat) 
                    OPT Zero - Off then Zero. 

                                  TIGH 
                    R2 load 1MK Code: known. 
                          (beat) 
                    Cycle cryo fans. 
                          (beat) 
                    SCS - Operating. 
                          (beat) 
                    Perform EMS Delta V Test. 
                          (beat) 
                    Bias check - G2. 

      Adama is looking over the Tactical display, which is being updated by an ENLISTED person 
      when Dualla hands him another message printout.  He reads it with growing disbelief. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Is this a frakking joke? 

      A few heads turn, but everyone keeps working. 

                                  ADAMA (cont'd) 
                    Are they within voice range? 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

      Lee is working the wireless, trying to get Dualla's voice to come in through the STATIC and 
        INTERFERENCE.  The Pilot is working in the seat next to him. 

                                  DUALLA (WIRELESS) 
                          (fritzed) 
                    --eavy 7-- Gal--ca.  --read? 

                                  LEE 
                      Galactica/Colonial One.  Say again. 

      The channel finally clears. 

                                  DUALLA (WIRELESS) 
                    -- nial One/Galactica.  We read you.  Galactica Actual 
                    wishes to speak with Apollo. 

      Lee was expecting this and he's not looking forward to it. 

                                  LEE 
                    This is Apollo.  Go ahead Actual. 

      INT. COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER       Where Adama puts on the mic headset.  Tries not to say what's foremost in his mind. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Are you... is your ship all right? 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

    As before. 

                                  LEE 
                    We're both fine.   
                          (beat) 
                    Thanks for asking. 

      That came out a little more cutting and sarcastic than he intended, but too late to take it back 
      now.   

      INT. COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      Adama's tone goes cold, impersonal. 

                                  ADAMA  
                    Is your ship's FTL drive functioning? 

      Lee glances at the Pilot, who nods. 

                                  LEE (WIRELESS) 
                    That's affirmative. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Then you're ordered to bring your ship and its 
                    passengers to the rendezvous point.  Acknowledge. 

      A long beat before Lee replies.   

                                  LEE (WIRELESS) 
                    Acknowledge... receipt of message. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    What the hell does that mean? 

      INT. TRANSPORT SHIP - COCKPIT 

      Where Lee is clearly struggling with what to do here. 

                                  LEE 
                    It means I heard you. 

                                  ADAMA (WIRELESS) 
                    You're going to have to do a lot better than that, Captain.   

                                  LEE 
                    We're engaged in rescue operations.   

                                  ADAMA (WIRELESS)                     You are ordered to abort your mission and proceed to 
                    Ragnar. 

                                  LEE 
                    The President has given me a direct order... 

                                  ADAMA (WIRELESS)  
                          (cutting) 
                    You mean the Secretary of Education?  We're in the 
                    middle of a war and you want to take orders from a 
                    school teacher? 

      The Pilot suddenly reacts to something on his Dradis screen. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Trouble... 

                                  LEE 
                    Stand-by, Galactica. 
                          (to Pilot) 
                    What? 

    He leans over to see what's on the screen. 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    Cylon fighters heading this way... 

                                  LAURA (O.S.) 
                    How long 'til they get here? 

      Lee looks up -- how long has she been there? 

                                  TRANSPORT PILOT 
                    ETA... five minutes. 

                                  LEE 
                    He's right.  We have to go.  Now. 

                                  LAURA 
                    No. 

                                  LEE 
                    Madame President, we can't defend this ship against-- 

                                  LAURA 
                    We're not going to just abandon all those people. 

                                  LEE 
                    But sir-- 

                                  LAURA 
                    I've made my decision, Captain. 

      Lee looks at her for a beat -- makes his decision.                                   LEE 
                          (to Pilot) 
                    Engage your hyperdrive. 

      Laura reacts, thinking she's lost this argument... 

      INT. COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER 

      Adama is over at the Dradis display with Gaeta, who is pointing out the situation.  On the display, 
      two BLIPS are heading toward two stationary BLIPS. 

                                  GAETA 
                    ... and two fighters closing on their coordinates. 

                                  ADAMA 
                          (to headset mic) 
                    Colonial One/Galactica.  Apollo, you've got inbound 
                    enemy fighters heading toward you!  What the hell are 
                    you doing?  Get the hell out of there!  LEE! 

      Gaeta stiffens and Adama turns back to the display -- an EXPANDING BLOOM of ENERGY 
      engulfs the position of the Transport & Liner.  Adama waits for Gaeta to work the controls and 
      give the verdict.  CIC goes utterly silent. 

                                  GAETA 
                    Fifty-kiloton thermo-nuclear detonation. 

                                  ADAMA 
                    Lee... 

    Off Adama's face as he realizes that his eldest son is dead... 

      SUPER:      To be continued... 

                                                                            FADE OUT. 


                                    END OF ACT EIGHT 