                                FARSCAPE



                                    "Pilot"


                                Written by


                        Rockne S O'Bannon





                                              Writer's first draft                                      COLD OPEN

      EXT. FLORIDA - OFF THE CAPE - DAWN

      In the distance, across a broad inlet, a shuttle clings to 
      the side of a massive booster rocket. The sun is low in the 
      sky; it's corona bright and thick, the yellow light diffusing 
      into a hazy red sky. Music is an ominous beating harmonic in 
      the BG. Overall effect is... ominous.

      Pan down and left to medium long on a man leaning back 
      against the hood of a red convertible, his back is to the 
      camera. The sleeves of the blue and white cabana shirt he 
      wears flutter in the slight morning breeze. He is silent and 
      unmoving, the music continuing as a slow heartbeat. The man's 
      focus is obviously on the prepared launch.

      Cut to close on the man's face. His blue eyes crinkle, 
      squinting into the light of the rising sun, his expression 
      deeply thoughtful, as though the launch site holds some 
      deeper meaning for him. His short light brown hair stirs 
      slightly in the breeze, the light illuminates a darker ring 
      of blue around the blue iris. A young man, perhaps in his 
      middle thirties, fair and nicely attractive, the furrowed 
      brow pronouncing his concern. This is John Crichton- American 
      Scientist and Astronaut-- waiting fate.

      Cut to medium long on the launch pad at Cape Canaveral and 
      the shuttle. The sun is a huge white ball perched off to the 
      right of the launch assembly and all is set against that 
      deeply red tinged sky. Music continues. The ominous mood is 
      complete. Something's gonna happen. Something ... bad?

      INT. CAPE CANAVERAL - READY ROOM - SOMETIME LATER

      Close on a magazine lying folded on a metal table, open to an 
      article captioned: "Childhood Friends Out To Prove A Theory". 
      The article's large photo features John, wearing a blue 
      jacket, pointing at mathematical mumbo jumbo on a huge white 
      board. Another young man stands beside him, this is DK, 
      aforementioned 'childhood friend'. In the photo DK holds a 
      small model of a spacecraft similar in design to the shuttle.

      Shot pans away, across the room and up to JC, seated on a 
      short stool and now wearing a bright orange flight suit. Two 
      white clad workers are assisting Crichton, ensuring that all 
      the suit closures are properly fastened. John still looks 
      distracted from his early morning sabbatical. Another man in 
      the FG speaks; John's best friend and partner in what they 
      are about to accomplish.

                                  DK (O.S.)
                    Launch Conditions as of 0530 are 
                    optimal. Final checks underway and 
                    recovery craft in position.

      John stands, shaking off the attendants, crossing the room to 
      DK. We hear that lovely voice for the first time.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      2.
      CONTINUED:


                                  JOHN
                    How are the CRC numbers?

                                  DK
                    Mid thirties and holding. 
                      Meteorology's got some hiccup 
                    they're checking out...

      DK's attempt to fend John off the clipboard he's holding 
      fails and John snatches it from his hands, examining the 
      notations. While John reads, DK retrieves the magazine from 
      the table and waves that about instead, throwing a friendly 
      arm over John's shoulder. John does his best to ignore his 
      friend's enthusiasm.

                                  DK (CONT D)
                    See our latest press?
                          (reading from the article)
                      "Childhood friends out to prove a 
                      theory"...
                          (beat)
                    "Can a manned spacecraft overcome 
                      atmospheric friction and 
                      exponentially increase it's speed 
                    using only a planet's natural 
                      gravitational pull?"
                          (smirking)
                    Huh?

      John cocks his head and grabs the magazine, tossing it aside, 
      concentrating again on the data contained on the clipboard. 
      DK sighs, sitting down, evidently concerned over his friend's 
      somber attitude.

                                  DK (CONT D)
                    Man, what is wrong with you?

                                  JOHN
                          (relenting)
                    DK... you know that feeling you get 
                    the night before something really 
                    big's about to happen in your life?
                          (cocking his head, a plea 
                          for understanding)
                    It-It's the night before we 
                    graduated high school. It's the... 
                    night before we started this job. 
                    Well... I had that feeling last 
                    night in quarantine.

      DK doesn't appreciate the import.

                                  DK
                    This experiment that important to 
                    you?




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      3.
      CONTINUED: (2)


      John is silent, his expression more concerned than 
      enthusiastic, he attempts a smile. DK sees something behind 
      John, drawing his attention with an arched eyebrow and a 
      slight nod.

                                  DK (CONT D)
                    Uh oh, one small step, bud.

      John turns as an older man enters, silver haired, dressed 
      casual wearing brown slacks, a green shirt and a blue and 
      yellow baseball jacket. A large ID is hung around his neck on 
      a blue cord; another ID clipped to the jacket. This is 
      'famous American Astronaut' and 'John's Dad', Colonel Jack 
      Crichton. He smiles warmly as he approaches his son.

                                  COL CRICHTON
                    Hey, DK.

                                  DK
                          (grinning faintly)
                    Sir.

                                  COL CRICHTON
                          (smiling, obviously proud)
                    Well, you're looking pretty sharp 
                    there... Commander Crichton.

      John half-grins, looking back and forth to DK and his father, 
      a bit uncomfortable under the attention, or the praise, or 
      both.

                                  JOHN
                    Thanks, Dad.

      John hands DK the clipboard and circles around his father, 
      heading for the door then turns back to the men in the room.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Let's do this thing.

      He exits, followed by two white clad attendants, Jack 
      Crichton and DK.

      EXT. CANAVERAL - LAUNCH PAD

      Long on the Shuttle. It's into late morning or midday, the 
      sky is an intense blue, the shuttle pristinely white against 
      the brown booster rocket.

      INT. CANAVERAL - CORRIDOR

      Close on the floor and panning up as John and Jack, walking 
      side by side, advance down a long white corridor split by 
      narrow windows at intervals running from the floor, up the 
      wall and across the ceiling. Their conversation is a bit 
      stilted, perhaps not used to communicating as equals. 



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      4.
      CONTINUED:

      John now carries a gray bag by a long strap over his right 
      shoulder, a white flight helmet in his left hand.

                                  COL CRICHTON
                    I, ah, talked to Pete Maxwell and 
                    the others at Control. They're 
                    going to take real good care of you 
                    while you're up there.

      John walks quietly, not responding to his father's concern 
      other than to look down briefly at his feet, it seems clear 
      that his father's intervention, even in so small a way, 
      bothers him-- he doesn't express it, beyond this bit of 
      uncomfortable body language.

                                  COL CRICHTON (CONT D)
                    I heard that you went AWOL from the 
                    Rat Cage this morning.

      John laughs-- a self-deprecating chuckle.

                                  COL CRICHTON (CONT D)
                    Man, in my day, if I'd ever broken 
                      quarantine like that they 
                      would've....

      Behind them, DK and a crowd of white clad attendants enter 
      the corridor, following father and son at a privacy lending 
      distance.

                                  COL CRICHTON (CONT D)
                    Son, you got rattlers in your 
                    stomach?

                                  JOHN
                    Ah, I've been up on the shuttle 
                    before dad. Twice.

                                  COL CRICHTON
                    Didn't matter how many times I went 
                    up, every time: rattlers. First 
                    EVA, first time I walked on the 
                    moon...

                                  JOHN
                    I'm not going EVA Dad, I'm not 
                    walkin' on the moon, I'm just 
                    runnin' a little experiment...

                                  COL CRICHTON
                    Yeah, an experiment to prove your 
                    own theory. Do you have any idea 
                    how proud that makes me? That's 
                    something I never did. I mean, the 
                    guys in the button down collars and 
                    the neckties, they got to use their 
                    brains. The only thing I ever got 
                    to use was...


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      5.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  JOHN
                          (grinning, he's heard this 
                            before)
                    ... "guts... and the seat of my 
                    flight suit."

                                  COL CRICHTON
                    Son, I can't help being who I am. 
                    Who I was.

      They slow and stop, turning to face each other. John's tone 
      is weary; he's tired of trying, or being seen as trying, to 
      live up to his famous father.

                                  JOHN
                    It's not who you are Dad. I love 
                    who you are. It's being son of who 
                    you are.
                          (laughs)
                    Look, I...
                          (looking into his father's 
                            eyes)
                    I can't be your kind of hero.

                                  COL CRICHTON
                    No, you can't be. But each man gets 
                    a chance to be his own kind of 
                    hero. Your time will come, and when 
                    it does. . . watch out... chances 
                    are it'll be the last thing you 
                    ever expected.

      After a silent moment Jack offers John a small ring. John 
      looks down at it, his expression showing us the history, the 
      size and significance of the offer of this small object, but 
      he backs slightly, waving it off. He walks away, heading down 
      the corridor again, Jack following.

                                  JOHN
                    Oh, no. That's your good luck 
                    charm, Yuri Gagarin gave you that.

                                  COL CRICHTON
                          (smiling)
                    No, listen... you hang onto it and 
                    you can give it back to me tonight.

      He reluctantly accepts the loan, his expression thoughtful 
      again, speculative gaze on his father as they pass out of 
      shot.

      EXT. CAPE - LAUNCH PAD

      Close on the booster engines firing, cut to long on the 
      shuttle as it lifts slowly from the launch pad. Cut to close 
      on the side of the shuttle as it rockets upward.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      6.
      CONTINUED:


      Cut to long across the inlet, the water and sky intensely lit 
      by the flare of the boosters, white plumes of smoke stretch 
      across the FG as the shuttle is hurled into the upper 
      atmosphere.

      Cut to close on the flames from the side booster rocket as 
      the shuttle climbs upward.

      EXT. SPACE - EARTH ORBIT - SPACE SHUTTLE - LATER

      A slice of Earth from space, it's outer curve blanketed in 
      blackness. Fade to the shuttle from the rear, hanging in 
      space above the earth, the sun is peeking over the far curve. 
      As the nose of the shuttle begins to drop, preparing to 
      deploy, the voice of a radio announcer is heard.

                                  ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
                    Ladies and gentlemen of the press. 
                    At 26:14 on the flight clock we 
                    begin the major experiment of this 
                    shuttle mission.

      INT. SHUTTLE

      The outer doors swing open, the light leaking into the 
      darkness, the narrow shaft widening over the smaller vessel 
      inside. More or less, it is a copy of the larger shuttle, 
      black and white, it's wings folded up against the body to 
      allow for storage and launch from the larger shuttle. The 
      radio announcer continues.

                                  ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
                    Commander John Crichton will pilot 
                    a craft of his own design, in a 
                    dangerous attempt to use our 
                    planet's gravity as a speed 
                    booster.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      Close on John Crichton inside the small cockpit. He's 
      prepping for launch as the radio announce continues, the 
      helmet on his head has a black circle logo on the brow, the 
      legend: "Farscape 1"

      EXT. SPACE - THE SHUTTLE

      The Shuttle's deployment arm lifts the small ship up and out 
      of the hangar. As the smaller ship moves free of the shuttle 
      doors, the wing tips lower and lock seamlessly into place. 
      The arm continues to deploy the smaller ship until the arm 
      locks, extending the Farscape One perpendicular to the 
      shuttle. Announcer's voice continues.

                                  ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
                      Sling-shotting him off into space 
                    at previously unrecorded speeds.
                                  (MORE)

                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                      7.
      CONTINUED:
                                  ANNOUNCER (V.O.) (CONT'D)
                          (beat)
                    If successful, the results are 
                      anticipated as the first concrete 
                    step toward interstellar travel.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      John continues prepping the ship, flipping various switches 
      as the announcer wraps things up.

      EXT. SPACE - THE SHUTTLE

      Locking bolts blow, releasing the smaller ship from the 
      deployment arm. It floats gently, slightly above the arm.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

                                  JOHN
                      Canaveral, this is Farscape One, I 
                    am free and flying.

      INT. MISSION CONTROL

      Close on DK, headset in place.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    Are you with me there, Momma Bear?

                                  DK
                    Oh yeah, Farscape, I'm reading you 
                    loud and clear.

      Pan Left and up as DK turns to look at Col. Crichton, 
      standing just behind him, he gives him a nod, the smile on 
      his face replete with pride and affection.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                      Authorizing flight computer...

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

                                  JOHN
                    ...to initiate acceleration 
                      sequencing...
                          (presses a control)
                    ...now.

                                  DK (O.S.)
                    Roger, Farscape...

      Close on DK, his expression is intent for a change, rather 
      than playful.

                                  DK (CONT D)
                    ...you are go for insertion 
                      procedure.                                                                                      8.



      EXT. SPACE - EARTH ORBIT

      The rockets of Farscape 1 ignite, the rockets hurling the 
      small ship outward away from the shuttle. Cut to leading 
      shot, the module rocketing toward our POV, the intense blue 
      orb of the earth far below us, cut to INT. Farscape 1 as the 
      ship rockets away, beneath our POV.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

                                  JOHN
                      Approaching maximum velocity in 21 
                      seconds...

      EXT. SPACE - EARTH ORBIT

      Close on the Farscape, friction glide over the earth's 
      atmosphere creating a white corona around the ship's nose and 
      belly.

      Long shot across Mission Control, providing a view of three 
        workstations in front of DK, two flanking him. Colonel 
      Crichton leans against a counter behind DK, a row of black 
      manuals just behind him lining the rear of the counter just 
      below a wide window into another room. A few people mill 
      about in the second room, mounted on the far wall is a large 
      blue circle logo, the legend: IASA.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    ...18 seconds...

      EXT. SPACE - EARTH ORBIT

      The friction and turbulence surrounding the module increases, 
      the white corona turning reddish as the small shuttle skips 
      and bounces across the earth's atmosphere.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      John's head bobs slightly with the roughness of the ride, not 
      too bad at this point.

      EXT. SPACE - EARTH ORBIT

      The small ship, streaking reddish/white flame, arcs speedily 
      around the global hemisphere, heading around the horizon.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      The ride no rougher, John flicks a few controls.

                                  JOHN
                      ...entering critical apogee phase.                                                                                      9.



      EXT SPACE - EARTH ORBIT

      Shot is long and down on the small ship, now emitting a long 
      flaring tail as it skates across the atmosphere.

      INT. CANAVERAL - MISSION CONTROL

      Rapid beeping alarm sounds. DK stands, bending over the 
      display.

                                  DK
                    Farscape 1, hold a moment.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    Hold?

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      John's bounced about strongly, the racket making it hard to 
      hear.

                                  JOHN
                      Canaveral, what?

                                  DK (O.S.)
                      Meteorology reports some kind of...

      INT. CANAVERAL - MISSION CONTROL

                                  DK
                      ...electromagnetic wave. Repeat. 
                    Some kind of wave. John do you read 
                    me?

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

                                  JOHN
                    Yeah, I read you.

      EXT SPACE - EARTH ORBIT

      Farscape 1 continues on it's trajectory, buffeted by the 
      interaction with the planets mass.

      INT. CANAVERAL - MISSION CONTROL

      DK's expression is intense, worried; he can't understand 
      John's transmission, so broken with static, but by his 
      readings, there's serious trouble brewing. John's voice 
      continues, severely distorted by transmission interference.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                          (over broken transmission)
                    What are we talking here... how 
                    severe?                                                                                    10.



      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      John waits for an answer, but the transmission he gets is 
      severely broken, unintelligible. We hear DK's voice, but 
      cannot tell what he is saying.

                                  JOHN
                      Canaveral?

      INT. CANAVERAL - MISSION CONTROL

      Frantic urgency now, DK attempts to get a warning through.

                                  DK
                    John, abort!

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

                                  JOHN
                      Canaveral!

      INT. CANAVERAL - MISSION CONTROL

      Jack steps forward, deep apprehension on his face.

                                  COL CRICHTON
                    Son, you have to abort. Abort now!

      EXT. SPACE - EARTH ORBIT

      It's too late to abort; the nose of the small shuttle 
      encounters the leading edge of a blue wave and tumbles 
      forward on the impact.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      John hangs in the straps, barely holding on, his eyes lift 
      and lock on the upper canopy. An unimaginable sight greets 
      him.

      EXT. SPACE - EARTH ORBIT

      The Farscape tumbles toward a swirling blue vortex, is drawn 
      inside and disappears as the vortex winks out leaving only 
      the blackness of space.

      INT. CANAVERAL - MISSION CONTROL

      Complete silence and close on Colonel Crichton's shocked 
      expression, cut to close on DK, equally shocked. Something 
      has gone horribly wrong.                                                                                    11.



      FARSCAPE ONE - WORMHOLE SEQUENCE

      The ship's cabin is bathed in blue light, a cacophony of 
      sound and fury as John is hurled wildly against the straps, 
      the ship rocking violently, a prolonged scream tearing from 
      him as his body is subjected to extreme forces.

      INT. WORMHOLE

      The ship is tossed and turned about inside a blue and white 
      funnel, racing at incredible speed.

      Shot cuts back and forth, inside the shuttle as John is 
      tossed about, pulled by the forces generated by the passage 
      through the wormhole, and the ship is traveling at incredible 
      speed. The mind-blowing trip finally ending as the blue light 
      winks out, the shuttle slowing.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      Crichton's drawn out scream tapers off and he gasps, 
      struggling to breathe as the forces on his body decrease. He 
      struggles to reorient himself, gulping air.

                                  JOHN
                    --oh! Oh, God... I can't...

      Gathering his wits, he flicks a switch, silencing the alarm, 
      immediately attempting to contact Mission Control.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Canaveral this is Farscape One. I'm 
                    okay. Repeat. I'm okay.

      And maybe he is, but he looks like hell, his exuberance 
      attempting to surface beneath the shock. Still shaken, his 
      voice takes on a severe tone of relief and excitement.

      EXT. SPACE - ELSEWHERE

      The small ship floating against a star studded blackness, 
      various asteroids of varying sizes share near space with the 
      ship.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                      Woo-hoo-hoo! Hey, did you guys get 
                    video through all that?

      John continues flipping switches, monitoring systems. His 
      eyes down on the controls, he hasn't looked up, or out...yet. 
      He gets nothing but static when he switches to receive 
      transmission.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                      Canaveral...
                          (static)
                    DK....
                                  (MORE)

                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    12.
      CONTINUED:
                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                          (static)
                    Dad?
                          (static)
                    Where are you guys, where's...

      Finally looking up, he realizes he's not in Kansas anymore.

      EXT. SPACE

      Large and small asteroids float in front of him; there is no 
      sign of the familiar blue orb that is Earth.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      Close on John's stunned expression.

                                  JOHN
                    ...Earth?

      Roar of engines, and

      EXT. SPACE

      The ship wobbles heavily as three fast moving craft rocket 
      overhead.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      John's rocked by the movement of the ship, panicked he looks 
      up and out and around, another bit of a shock.

                                  JOHN
                    Jeez! What the...!?

      EXT. SPACE

      The three small black craft arc away, around the curve of a 
      larger asteroid.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE

      Close on John's stunned expression as he peers out the 
      forward portal.

                                  JOHN
                    Uh... Canaveral?

                                                                    FADE TO BLACK


                                    END COLD OPEN

      ROLL OPENING CREDITS                                                                                    13.


                                        ACT I

      EXT. SPACE - FARSCAPE ONE - CONTINUOUS FROM COLD OPEN

      Returning where we left off, Farscape 1, just floating where 
      it was spit out by the wormhole. Quick shot of John, watching 
      through the canopy as three of the small black craft, 
      PROWLERS, rocket back toward him, passing overhead. Another 
      Prowler, passing around the edge of the large asteroid behind 
      John's craft, passes much too close and their wings clip! 
      Both ships are thrown into a tumble.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    Oh, Jeez. Canaveral, I've been hit!

      The other ship tumbles toward an asteroid, vaporizing on 
      impact. John struggles with his controls, righting his 
      vessel, exterior retros firing. Inside the module, John 
      continues working with his controls, looking up as his vessel 
      passes near the underside of the large asteroid. As his ship 
      moves into the open he sees a large... vessel, our first view 
      of MOYA; under attack by the Prowlers, the ship is so massive 
      the prowlers appear as tiny specks, their laser weapons, 
      pinpricks against it's hull.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    That's big.

      More of the ship comes into view as the attack continues. 
      It's massive... the extreme, needless to say, John's never 
      seen it's like.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    That's really big.

      As he eyes the ship with casual wonder, he fails to note 
      immediately that his ship is being drawn closer to the larger 
      vessel, toward a large open door in it's side.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Oh, hell.

      Farscape 1 is so small it cannot be seen against the hull of 
      the Leviathan, or the huge open door in it's side. The attack 
      on this ship continues as John's voice continues over 
      transmission.

                                  JOHN (O.S.) (CONT D)
                    Ah, Canaveral, Dad... DK, I'm being 
                    pulled... ah.

      Close on the open exterior door, the view moving inside as 
      John's vessel is drawn within, John's POV as his ship seems 
      to be towed by an elongated black object, floating above the 
      deck of a monstrous cavern. John's voice continues, on the 
      ragged edge of panic.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    14.
      CONTINUED:


                                  JOHN (O.S.) (CONT D)
                    The engines not responding and I 
                    can't break away. Can anyone hear 
                    me?
                          (beat)
                      Canaveral?

      Drawn deeper inside the large cavern a massive internal door, 
      black as starless space, lowers at the approach of the 
      docking web and it's burden.

      John cranes his neck, looking out the upper canopy. Looking 
      ahead again as the ship is towed beyond the first interior 
      wall and into an even larger arena, the construction 
      strangely exotic, the walls curved, with two levels of 
      platforms following the interior walls. John is gaping, 
      staggered out of his mind.

                                  JOHN (O.S.) (CONT D)
                    Oh my god.

      The docking web tows the module out into the center of this 
      vast arena, the deck far below. John doesn't know 'what' to 
      do with himself.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Um...

      He looks 'extremely' worried. Finally registering when his 
      ship is lowered toward the deck, he engages the landing gear 
      and the ship touches down just as they lock in place. 
      Farscape rolls forward on inertia, into a smaller room, the 
      doors closing behind it as it's wings fold up, completing a 
      completely unexpected landing sequence.

      INT. FARSCAPE ONE - ON BOARD MOYA - TRANSPORT HANGAR

      On automatic pilot, so to speak, John flicks several 
      controls, shutting down systems one would imagine, he's so 
      into ignoring what's happening at this second. Abruptly a 
      pair of eyestalks that seem to peer in at him draws his 
      attention to the upper canopy. A small yellow machine 
      belonging to said eyestalks, rolls onto the canopy, whirring 
      and beeping busily.

      While he's gaping at this, a spark flies from the control 
      panel, initiating a cascade failure of some kind. A small 
      explosion of sparks follows and an alarm bleats urgently. 
      John flicks switches trying to cut power but there's a full-
      blown fire in the panel now. He grabs a fire extinguisher and 
      triggers it, effectively removing the remainder of oxygen 
      from the small cabin. John starts to cough in the cloud of 
      extinguishing agent and his hand hits the canopy release.

      The canopy shoots up on a plume of white smoke, carrying an 
      unwilling passenger. John lifts himself up and out, still 
      working on extinguishing the fire. 


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    15.
      CONTINUED:

      White smoke fills the immediately area and he chokes and 
      coughs from somewhere in there.

      Still coughing, he leaps out, landing on the deck of the 
      alien vessel, shooting the remaining agent into the ship. 
      Breathless and sweating, he removes his helmet, placing it 
      inside the craft, then looks around, extremely nervous, 
      scared spitless.

      INT. MOYA - TRANSPORT HANGAR

      Edging nervously around the nose of his module, his ears are 
      assaulted by a plethora of alien sounds; chiefest among them, 
      the squawks of the DRD, working it's way out from under the 
      ejected canopy. The DRD rolls free, one of it's eyestalks is 
      crushed and hangs limply.

      The DRD rolls toward him and he edges away, back toward the 
      open canopy, he steps up onto the wing, going who knows 
      where, but is stopped by the presence of another DRD on top 
      of a ship. This one brandishes what looks to be a small 
      weapon at him.

      Still focused on retrieving something, we know not what, from 
      the interior of his ship, he 'makes a false move' and the DRD 
      fires at him. White out from the explosion.

      INT MOYA - CORRIDOR OUTSIDE COMMAND - COMMAND

      Angle down on John's feet, stumbling awkwardly as he's herded 
      by two of the small yellow DRDs. One prods him in the calf 
      with a laser tool when he balks at the sight that greets him 
      on entering Command.

      Long across Command, two honest to god aliens stand in front 
      of him, their backs to him, attention focused on a large 
      forward portal or viewscreen as the Prowlers continue their 
      assault on the Leviathan, explosions rock the ship. Prodded 
      by the DRD, John moves forward reluctantly, his hand 
      wandering to his face, briefly across his eyes, he absolutely 
      stunned.

      Neither of the aliens seem to take note of him, instead 
      continue a verbal barrage in two different alien tongues 
      unlike any he's ever heard. His attention riveted now on the 
      aliens, awe and wonder overcoming his fear and a small 
      delighted smile sparkles.

      Abruptly the DRD on the floor behind Crichton bleeps, drawing 
      all of their attention. John looks down as the alien at the 
      forward control whirls about, several thick tentacles 
      depending from his massive skull whirling. He fastens intense 
      green eyes on the intruder and snarls. John looks up to greet 
      two very hostile aspects. The male tentacled alien and the 
      cold look from the beautiful, bald, blue woman. It's first 
      contact, an incredible moment for him, perhaps dreamed of for 
      years, and the only thing he can think to say is:



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    16.
      CONTINUED:


                                  JOHN
                    Um. Hi.
                          (waves slightly)
                          Close on D'Argo, decidedly 
                            hostile, almost growling.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    My name's John.

      D'Argo crosses the room in a few strides, taking John's 
      throat in one hand.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    John Cri--!

      Words choke off as he's lifted from his feet. Both hands grip 
      the large one around his neck, trying to ease the pressure.

                                  D'ARGO
                          (speaking alien language)

                                  JOHN
                          (struggling to breathe)
                    I... can't understand what....

      Low angle and close on the DRD rolling up to John's dangling 
      left foot. It presses an injector extended from it's casing 
      against his boot, a small popping noise as the red substance 
      in the injector tube is shot through the leather. Crichton is 
      jolted, grunting in pain.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                            (constricted voice)
                    What was... that...?

      Zhaan is the next to speak, she is impatient, initially 
      speaking her own unintelligible language, her words quickly 
      piecing together into a language he can understand.

                                  ZHAAN
                    I suggest that you answer him 
                    quickly. You know how Luxans can 
                    be.

      D'Argo pulls John's face close to his. Even if John could 
      talk, I'm not certain he'd know what to say in the face of 
      this incredible hostility.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Your ship, what kind is it?

      Zhaan speaks and D'Argo yanks the hanging human in her 
      direction so she can see him. Oddly courteous for a guy who 
      uses hanging as a method of persuasion.





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    17.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  ZHAAN
                    Your ship appeared from nowhere and 
                    we don't know that technology. Is 
                    it something we can use to escape?

      D'Argo yanks him close to his face again. Why the guy is 
      still conscious is beyond me, he's obviously having problems 
      drawing in oxygen, and that whole hanging by the throat thing 
      -- historically bad for humans.

                                  D'ARGO
                    We brought you aboard for one 
                    reason. Tell us or die with us!

      John can't answer, not a word or a breath escapes. His 
      eyebrows work and he's most decidedly back to shocked and 
      alarmed. Another explosion rocks the ship. D'Argo tosses John 
      across the room and strides to another console, tentacles 
      bouncing vociferously. Crichton hits the ground with a grunt 
      and rolls; his body stopped by the wall.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    Pilot! I demand you give me 
                      maneuverability now!
                          (beat)
                    Pilot!

      INT. MOYA - PILOT'S DEN

      Our first full view of Pilot, in Technicolor and it's a nice 
      one. His massive body perched behind a console, four arms 
      working many controls, large head crowned by a massive crown-
      like skull in the shape of an inverted abalone shell.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Close on a 3-D holo-display image wavering 'on' inside an 
      open clam shaped device, Pilot's head appearing in the image.

                                  PILOT
                    There's nothing I can do! Not while 
                    the control collar is still in 
                    place.

      Another explosion rocks the vessel. Zhaan ducks back as 
      sparks fly up from the console she's working. D'Argo growls 
      and paces across command, braids dancing madly. John's half 
      reclining on the floor, recovering from his close encounter, 
      hand still tenderly at his throat.

                                  PILOT (CONT D)
                    Moya can't withstand this assault 
                    much longer!

      D'Argo lifts the cover off the console, tossing it on the 
      floor like discarded tinfoil and begins tearing more 
      connectors.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    18.
      CONTINUED:


                                  PILOT (CONT D)
                    Those synapses you are tearing out 
                    are not wired to the control 
                    collar!

                                  D'ARGO
                    Then I shall keep pulling until I 
                    find the ones that are!

      As D'Argo continues to tear connections, John furtively 
      crawls toward the open door, just a few feet away, but he's 
      hurled backward as his head intersects with a speeding 
      object.

                                  RYGEL
                    Get out of the way!

      Rygel-- a natural New Yorker if not for the whole 'diminutive 
      toad-like alien perched on a hovering chair' thing-- glides 
      quickly into the room, stopping beside the towering Luxan. 
      Zhaan pauses in her attempt to gain control of the ship.

                                  ZHAAN
                          (to Rygel)
                    The others, where are they?

                                  RYGEL
                    There are no others, I've checked 
                    every cell level.
                          (beat)
                    I found a manifest. We were 
                    scheduled for transport to Terran 
                    Rau.

                                  D'ARGO
                    That is a lifer's colony.

      Huddled by the wall, still recovering from the latest jolt, 
      John comes to a realization.

                                  JOHN
                          (quietly)
                      Prisoners.
                          (beat)
                    You're escaped prisoners?

                                  D'ARGO
                    I will not be taken prisoner again.

      John presses himself further into the wall, flinching a bit 
      as Rygel glides close.

                                  RYGEL
                    They brought you on board didn't 
                    they?
                          (voice lowering 
                              conspiratorially)
                                  (MORE)

                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    19.
      CONTINUED: (2)
                                  RYGEL (CONT'D)
                    Don't worry, I'll protect you. I'll 
                    look after you now...
                          (pats John's arm 
                            reassuringly)
                    you look after me later.

      We know he can wink, but can't tell that he did, 'cause his 
      back is to the camera, the better to witness John's horrified 
      expression.

                                  PILOT
                      Attention! Hull integrity is 
                    reaching critical compromise.

      D'Argo continues tearing connectors as the attack continues. 
      Zhaan pauses again, whispering a prayer. Close on the forward 
      portal; prowlers maneuvering close, unleashing a barrage of 
      fire against the ship.

      Close on D'Argo's hand, tearing out another cluster of 
      connectors from a control console, white fluid leaks from the 
      torn edges and Moya quivers. Zhaan's prayer breaks off, and 
      she sighs, shaken surprise and relief in her voice.

                                  ZHAAN
                    What have you done?

                                  D'ARGO
                    What do you mean?

                                  ZHAAN
                    The coding wall. It's dimming.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA - PROWLER SQUADRON - ATTACK CONTINUES

      Prowlers continue attacking, close on a large black and red 
      object strapped across the nose of the massive ship.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Close on Zhaan's hands, moving at incredible speed, almost 
      blurring as they dip into the various control wells on the 
      console before her.

                                  ZHAAN
                          (stunned surprise)
                    I've hit the code, I've hit the 
                    code.

                                  PILOT
                    The control collar. It's coming 
                    off!

      A series of explosions and bolts the size of your average 
      Trident missile shoot away from the control collar, in 
      Command Zhaan and D'Argo, much relieved, watch through the 
      forward portal as pieces of the control collar float away.                                                                                    20.



      INT. MOYA - PILOT'S DEN

      Long across the room. Four walkways branch away from the 
      neural control center, which is Pilot's home.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

      The control collar floats away from the ship, the sound of 
      energies building as she moves away. She's about to book!

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

                                  D'ARGO
                    Pilot, prepare for immediate 
                      Starburst!

                                  PILOT
                    Moya . . . has been restrained so 
                    long...

                                  D'ARGO
                    She is a Leviathan, it is the 
                    single defensive maneuver that she 
                    is capable of.

      EXT. SPACE - COMMAND CARRIER - PROWLER SQUADRON

      Close on the hull of a large space ship, COMMAND CARRIER.

                                  VOICE (V.O.)
                    Terminate assault.

      Cut to long on three prowlers hanging in space.

                                  VOICE (V.O.) (CONT D)
                    All Prowlers terminate assault.

      INT. PROWLER

      Close on the pilot's stubborn face, half obscured by the 
      black helmet she wears.

      EXT. SPACE - PROWLER SQUADRON

      Two of the prowlers peel off, terminating the assault as 
      ordered. The third Prowler speeds forward, refusing the 
      order.

      INT. MOYA - PILOT'S DEN

                                  PILOT
                    Claw onto something people!

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

                                  PILOT
                    Prepare for Starburst!


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    21.
      CONTINUED:


      Zhaan and D'Argo move, D'Argo shoves past Rygel and grabs 
      onto the edge of a console. As the ship hums, energy buildup, 
      and...

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

      Lights brighten along the exterior hull of the massive 
      Leviathan. The sound of increasing energy buildup as the 
      Leviathan's nose cone extends slightly, pan down showing her 
      full length. A bright glow from her tail and the tips of her 
      'wings' as they touch. The glow brightens-- a halo of 
      blue/white energy forming as the tips of her wings expand 
      away from her tail. Cut to reverse shot, the intensifying 
      light accompanied by arc lightening effects as the halo of 
      energy expands.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Rygel hovers in close again, scowling. D'Argo growls, up 
      close and personal and his eye, er, earbrows shoot up.

                                  RYGEL
                          (muttering)
                    I hate Starburst.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

      Gorgeous CGI as blue/white light races along her hull, an 
      energy wave washing up from her tail to her nose. The halo 
      following, rushing up the length of her body, and she bursts 
      forward -- disappearing into the coruscating halo of energy 
      before it also winks out in a flash of white light. And she's 
      gone, Starburst to freedom.

      EXT. SPACE - COMMAND CARRIER - PEACEKEEPER ARMADA

      The burst of white light fades to close on the Command 
      Carrier. Moving slowly past, prowlers miniscule against her 
      side, large portals lining the side of the ship showing even 
      small lights, the many, many levels of the massive ship, by 
      scale, larger even than the three collared Leviathan's 
      preceding it. A voice, obviously over radio, directs 
      operations.

                                  VOICE
                          (low)
                    All prowlers report to squadron 
                    leaders and return to carrier.

      INT. COMMAND CARRIER - THE BRIDGE

      A door slides open, retracting into the wall above. A black 
      clad man complete with dour expression, black hair and goatee 
      enters. A low voice continues in BG transmitting directives 
      as this man; 




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    22.
      CONTINUED:

      his bearing exuding coldness, danger and obvious command 
      position, strides across the deck, acknowledging no one, 
      including the petite blonde woman who attempts to hail him as 
      he enters.

                                  TEEG
                    Captain?

      The blonde woman, PK Lieutenant Teeg, similarly clad in black 
      except for the red piping, which may designate rank at this 
      point; leaves one of the four large control stations and 
      follows.

                                  TEEG (CONT D)
                    Captain Crais?

      She tentatively approaches, certainly intimidated by his 
      presence. He stops, annoyed, his tone curt and demanding.

                                  CRAIS
                    Yes, Lieutenant?

                                  TEEG
                          (swallowing - she draws 
                            herself up)
                    The Prowler squad has returned, 
                    sir. They report . . . the 
                    Leviathan transport has escaped.
                          (hurrying onward)
                    One of the prisoners, the Hynerian 
                    Royal, somehow secured the key 
                    codes to the prisoner's cells and . 
                    . .
                          (hesitating briefly)
                    There were casualties, sir. Two 
                    ships lost and...

                                  CRAIS
                    I don't care about casualties. A 
                    Leviathan transporting prisoners 
                    does not escape from my custody.
                          (beat)
                    Has my brother returned yet? I'll 
                    dispatch him in the rear battle 
                    fighter to track her down.

      She's hesitant, there's something she wants to tell him, yet, 
      doesn't want to tell him. She elects to show him instead.

                                  TEEG
                    Sir...

      Painfully hesitant, she guides him with a gesture toward a 
      monitoring station.





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    23.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  TEEG (CONT D)
                    This is playback from the recon 
                    satellite monitoring the pursuit of 
                    the Leviathan.

      Teeg activates playback. Close on the small screen reveals 
      the Farscape module floating in space. Crais's brow furrows.

                                  CRAIS
                    What manner of craft is that?

      On the monitor a prowler races around the asteroid behind the 
      small white ship.

                                  CRAIS (CONT D)
                    My brother's Prowler. I'm sure that 
                    he will...

      On the screen, the Prowler's wing scrapes the wing of the 
      Farscape, sending both ships out of control, the Prowler 
      vaporizing against the asteroid. Crais moves closer, his gaze 
      riveted on the display, his brother is dead. It means 
      something to him. Not just a cold bastard clad in black. He 
      turns toward Teeg, only in partial profile but the silent 
      plea is evident. She can't give him what he so obviously 
      wants; instead offering what she can.

                                  TEEG
                          (carefully)
                    We lost a second ship sir. It was 
                    absorbed with the Leviathan when it 
                    went into Starburst...

      Recovering from his stunned silence, he cuts her off.

                                  CRAIS
                    I want to see him.

                                  TEEG
                          (confused)
                    See him, sir?

                                  CRAIS
                    Peel back the image. I want to see 
                    who is inside.

      Teeg nods, almost bowing, moving away quickly, very nearly 
      relieved. Crais turns back, watching the playback on the 
      monitor, his expression grim, menacing.

      EXT. SPACE - ELSEWHERE

      A burst of white energy and Moya glides out of a blue/white 
      halo, slowing as she powers down, bluish tendrils trailing 
      off her hull like water, her nose cone slowly retracting.                                                                                    24.



      INT. MOYA - PILOT'S DEN

                                  PILOT
                    We have done it! We've escaped!

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

                                  PILOT
                      Attention! One Prowler traveled 
                    with us.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Block it's radio, net it, and bring 
                    it aboard.

                                  PILOT
                    As good as done.

      EXT. SPACE

      Behind Moya a single prowler tumbles, out of control.

      INT MOYA - COMMAND

                                  ZHAAN
                    Pilot does Moya know where we are?

                                  PILOT
                    Yes, of course. We're. . . 
                    someplace else. I'll. . . get back 
                    to you on the specifics.

      Zhaan's attention turns to the bewildered human, still 
      sitting on the floor of command. Her tone is scathing.

                                  ZHAAN
                    At least we are free.

      Apparently, no longer needing his goodwill, Rygel 'spits' on 
      John, only serving to wake him from some kind of stupor. He 
      staggers to his feet, backing away from Rygel.

                                  JOHN
                          (angry)
                    What is the matter with you. . . 
                    people?!

      D'Argo turns and zaps John in the back of the neck with his 
      long, narrow tongue (CGI). John grunts in surprise, turning 
      to look in amazement at the alien-- then drops like a rock-- 
      out cold.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

      Moya glides, unfettered, through space.                                                                                    25.



      INT. MOYA - COMMAND - A WHILE LATER

      Medium on D'Argo, arms braced against a console, head lowered 
      in frustration.

                                  D'ARGO
                    This damned Leviathan has no idea 
                    where we are!

      Long across width of command as Zhaan glides from one console 
      to stand across from D'Argo. He looks up, hesitant, seeming a 
      bit worried. Zhaan's expression is serene and soothing, her 
      voice softly melodic.

                                  ZHAAN
                    I am Pa'u Zotoh Zhaan. And you?

                                  D'ARGO
                    Ka D'Argo.
                          (recovering his wits a 
                            bit)
                    You are Delvian.

                                  ZHAAN
                          (nods and smiles)
                    A priest.

      Surprised again, D'Argo stammers, the affect: charming. 
        Intimidating warrior or naf?

                                  D'ARGO
                    I have heard of your kind's 
                      practices. . . your. . . appetites.

                                  ZHAAN
                          (amused)
                    Such as?

                                  D'ARGO
                    I have heard of something known as 
                    the, ah, fourth sensation.

                                  ZHAAN
                          (moving closer)
                    I have experienced this.
                          (slyly regretful)
                    Not lately.

                                  D'ARGO
                          (shaken, as planned)
                    Oh. Why, why were you, uh...? Why 
                    have you, uh....?

                                  ZHAAN
                      Imprisoned? Because on my home 
                    world, even among my kind, I was... 
                    something of an anarchist. 
                                  (MORE)

                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    26.
      CONTINUED:
                                  ZHAAN (CONT'D)
                    Actually. . . I was the leading 
                      anarchist. And you?

                                  D'ARGO
                          (hard and reserved)
                    I killed a fellow soldier.

      Zhaan abandons her playful attitude for a more somber one.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    My commanding officer.

      She places a comforting hand over his.

                                  ZHAAN
                    How old are you?

                                  D'ARGO
                    cycles.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Ah, you are but a boy.

                                  D'ARGO
                          (irritated)
                    I am not. I am a Luxan warrior. I 
                    have seen two battle campaigns.

                                  ZHAAN
                          (smiling, slightly 
                            mocking)
                    Only two?

      Annoyed, D'Argo looks away, pulling his hand from beneath 
      hers. Changing the subject to more comfortable territory.

                                  D'ARGO
                    You know Peacekeeper coding.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Yes, I spent three cycles on a 
                    maximum labor planet.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Which one?

                                  ZHAAN
                    Micar Seven, assigned to 
                      Peacekeeper Intel and Interface.

                                  D'ARGO
                    I was on Micar Seven.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Truly?





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    27.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  D'ARGO
                    On the 93rd level, in the chemlech 
                    mines.

                                  ZHAAN
                          (surprised)
                    Why aren't you dead?

                                  D'ARGO
                    I often ask myself the same 
                    question. There were so many others 
                    who died while the Peacekeepers 
                    looked on. . . somehow it made me 
                    stronger.
                          (beat)
                    I suppose the warrior in me became 
                    too strong not to survive.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Perhaps you survived for this.

                                  D'ARGO
                    This escape? I doubt it will last 
                    long enough for the Peacekeepers 
                    even to note it in their log.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Not the escape itself but what we 
                    pray will be the result. Freedom.

                                  D'ARGO
                    That is a very Delvian way to look 
                    at the situation.

                                  ZHAAN
                    I am nothing if not a product of my 
                      upbringing.

                                  D'ARGO
                    And I of mine.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Then perhaps together a warrior and 
                    a priest can help save each other.

      INT. MOYA - CRICHTON'S CELL

      Close on John, waking suddenly, eyes opening on a gasp. Just 
      as quickly he closes them again.

                                  JOHN
                    Oh, please. Let it all be a dream. 
                    A very bad, very.... twisted dream.

      A noise outside his cell forces his eyes open again. He turns 
      his head, looking through the bars of his cell, a DRD, broken 
      antenna drooping, scuttles away followed by another. 


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    28.
      CONTINUED:

      John's head lifts up and he rolls onto his side at the sound 
      of Rygel's approaching hoverchair.

      Cut to shot behind John. Hm. His shoulder is bare. Wonder 
      where his shirt went? Rygel floats past the closed doors, 
      visible between the wide bars, glancing inside briefly.

                                  RYGEL
                    Hm...

      John, rising to hands and knees, crawls toward the bars. Uh, 
      he's, er, definitely unclothed, at least on the top half.

                                  JOHN
                    What, um...? Where...?

      His mind can't settle on a single question; there are too 
      many.

      Rygel, keying a coding sequence in a panel near John's cell, 
      pauses to look at the babbling human, but only for a moment, 
      returning his attention to the panel. John's head drops, 
      either disoriented, or suddenly feeling unnaturally cool. He 
      gets an unobscured view of himself. Unlike the audience.

      Realizing he's naked-- his head pops up again, instantly 
      settling on a question...

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Where are my clothes?

      Glancing wildly about, he leaps to his feet and dashes across 
      the room, sliding into a small space in the wall, quickly 
      pulling his trousers on.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Hey! Why did you take off my 
                    clothes!?

                                  RYGEL
                    I am Rygel the sixteenth, Dominar 
                    to over 600 billion people. I don't 
                    need to talk to you!

                                  JOHN
                    I thought you were a prisoner.

      John reaches for a white T-shirt, the yellow jumpsuit hangs 
      from a peg on the wall behind him.

                                  RYGEL
                    Falsely imprisoned. My cousin 
                    Bishan stole my throne from me 
                    while I slept. A mistake I will 
                    soon be correcting. Your garments 
                    were removed so that we could 
                    examine you.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    29.
      CONTINUED: (2)


      John moves toward the closed cell doors, head cocked to the 
      side, trying to work out something, anything.

                                  JOHN
                    Examine. Examine me? How... wh-
                    where...? W-wait a minute, one of 
                    those mechanical things of yours 
                    injected me right here...

                                  RYGEL
                      Translator microbes.

                                  JOHN
                    Microbes?

                                  RYGEL
                    They colonize at the base of the 
                    brain, allow us to understand each 
                    other. Why you weren't injected at 
                    birth I cannot fathom!

      More input; this is what he gets for asking questions. John 
      struggles to assimilate; head resting briefly in his hand 
      while he sorts it out.

                                  JOHN
                      "Colonize"... "Brain"...
                          (okay, nope, try something 
                            else.)
                    Wh-w-why have you got me locked in 
                    here? I'm... I-I'm not here to harm 
                    you, hell I wouldn't know how to 
                    harm you.

                                  RYGEL
                    We can no more trust you than we 
                    can trust that!

      Rygel gestures to the far wall of John's cell, cut to close 
      on the figure of the Prowler Pilot, still outfitted in full 
      space faring gear, helmet securely in place. Abruptly the 
      pilot's head lifts, still disoriented. Close on John, 
      watching. The figure stands and they face each other across 
      the cell, silent. John's a bit worried, glancing toward Rygel 
      for a moment, eyes back on the pilot as the helmet is 
      removed, revealing a human female, black hair tied back and 
      kinda mussed. Surprised John smiles in relief, crossing the 
      cell while she sits, still appearing shaken from her trip.

                                  JOHN
                    Hi, ah...

      A few more steps and he offers his hand. A nice friendly 
      gesture in his neck of the woods.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    My name's John....


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    30.
      CONTINUED: (3)


      She takes the offered hand, and pulls-- slamming his head 
      against the wall before driving a knee into his gut as he 
      bounces away. Still holding one arm, she slings him across 
      the room, and he lands sliding on his stomach. She crosses 
      toward him quickly while he struggles to rise to hands and 
      knees, kicking him brutally in the side, flipping him onto 
      his back. His arms wave in the air weakly, trying to defend 
      himself, she steps over him, kicking his arms away and drops 
      to her knees on his chest, pinning his arms to the ground. 
      She grips his head with her legs, twisting slightly, cutting 
      off his air.

                                  AERYN
                    What is your rank and regiment? And 
                    why are you out of uniform? Rank 
                    and regiment, now!

      And again, the guy just can't answer. All he can do is gape, 
      maybe gasp for air. Probably another instance of using a 
      bazooka to open a peanut butter jar.


                                      END ACT I                                                                                    31.


                                        ACT II

      INT. MOYA - CRICHTON'S CELL - CONTINUOUS FROM ACT I

      Aeryn crouches over John. He's silent, stunned from the 
      beating, or maybe just not amenable to force. She pushes 
      away, releasing him and stands, crossing to the bars, 
      stripping off the outer part of her flight suit, leaving John 
      on the floor, gasping. He rolls onto his knees, resting his 
      forehead on one arm; a hand cradling his much-abused throat 
      while Aeryn and Rygel go at it.

                                  AERYN
                    Let me out of here, you Hynerian 
                    slug!

                                  RYGEL
                    Your efforts are wasted 
                      Peacekeeper, you of all people 
                    should know that!

                                  JOHN
                          (looking up)
                      Peacekeeper? You...
                          (coughs)
                    You're one of those out there 
                    attacking the ship.
                          (realizing)
                    They think I'm one of you?

      Aeryn turns on him, disdain evident in her tone.

                                  AERYN
                    Officer Aeryn Sun, Special 
                      Peacekeeper Commando, Ikarian 
                    Company, Pleisar Regiment. Identify 
                    yourself.

      John stands with some difficulty, an arm wrapped protectively 
      around his ribs. He's red faced and... kind of pissed.

                                  JOHN
                    My rank... is Commander. I'm not 
                    military, 'least not any military 
                    you know. I'm a damn scientist.

      Aeryn eyes him silently, her features relaxing a bit, 
      evaluating new information.

      Rygel, having returned to keying the panel in the wall, 
      achieves success with a well-applied punch to the panel. 
      Electronic whine and a large platform lowers from the 
      ceiling.

                                  RYGEL
                    Mmm.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    32.
      CONTINUED:


      Rygel glides forward, examining the objects on the platform. 
      Removing a large ring from a silver box.

                                  RYGEL (CONT D)
                    Hm. It's been so long.

      D'Argo and Zhaan arrive.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Our possessions.

      D'Argo moves quickly to the platform.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    My blade.

                                  RYGEL
                    Hands off, Luxan!

      Zhaan moves close to the barred door.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Ah, you're awake both of you.

      Standing side-by-side, John, still looking a bit stunned, but 
      his anger subsided. Aeryn looks pissed.

                                  ZHAAN (CONT D)
                    A problem my dear? You should be 
                    used to viewing the likes of us 
                    through bars.

                                  JOHN
                          (moving closer)
                    You need to listen to me, I'm not 
                    what you think I am...

                                  ZHAAN
                    Not a Peacekeeper? Yes, we know 
                    that now. You have some decidedly 
                      unfamiliar bacteria living within 
                    you.

                                  JOHN
                          (relieved)
                    I'm from a planet called Earth. I'm 
                    human. Homo Sapien Sapien....

                                  ZHAAN
                          (holds up a delaying hand)
                    It's time for us to eat.

      Aeryn moves toward the opening doors, but can't progress much 
      because John is frozen, eyes locked on D'Argo.

                                  JOHN
                    Eat what?


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    33.
      CONTINUED: (2)


      D'Argo cocks his head, grinning.

      EXT. SPACE - PEACEKEEPER ARMADA

      INT. COMMAND CARRIER - THE BRIDGE

      Close on the playback as the prowler collides with the module 
      and impacts the asteroid.

                                  CRAIS (O.S.)
                    Whoever killed my brother will pay 
                    dearly.

                                  TEEG
                    Captain? The techs are completing 
                    the imaging of the module's pilot.

                                  CRAIS
                    Show me.

      They both move to another control station.

                                  TEEG
                    On the final sweep now, sir.

      Close on an image of the module, the black canopy becoming 
        translucent, revealing the face of the pilot. Close up on the 
      pilot. Poor John. Looks entirely shocked.

                                  TEEG (CONT D)
                    He's Sebacean!

                                  CRAIS
                    Inform the rear battle fighter. 
                    They will take charge of the 
                    Armada. We are going after the 
                      Leviathan.

                                  TEEG
                    But, sir, regulations...

                                  CRAIS
                          (seething)
                    That is a direct order, Lieutenant.

      INT. CORRIDOR - MOYA

      John and Aeryn, wrists bound before them, are moved down the 
      corridor by D'Argo and Zhaan.

                                  JOHN
                    Look, you know I'm not a 
                      Peacekeeper, how about you get this 
                    stuff off my wrists?





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    34.
      CONTINUED:


                                  ZHAAN
                    We still do not know your 
                      loyalties.

                                  JOHN
                    My loyalties? I just got here! You 
                    know... you're the first alien 
                    contact anybody from my planet has 
                    ever made. I mean, we dreamed about 
                    it, made movies about it but... by 
                    the way, what part of the universe 
                    are we in? Are we still in Orion's 
                    Arm, still in the Milky... Way...?
                          (questions trailing off 
                            into a small laugh, 
                            realizing)
                    You have no idea what I'm talking 
                    about do you? I need to see some 
                    star charts, get some common points 
                    of reference. Damn! This ship is 
                    amazing, what kind of...

      John's rush of words is cut off by the low purring sound of 
      the ship.

                                  ZHAAN
                    She is a Leviathan. A bio-
                      mechanoid. A living ship.

      John's struck speechless by this and his gaze roams over the 
      curved, golden hued walls. Zhaan and Aeryn move on and D'Argo 
      moves up behind him, growling. Startled, John ducks and 
      scuttles away.

      INT. CENTER CHAMBER - MOYA

                                  D'ARGO (O.S.)
                    You blame me?

      Zhaan pulls a silver tray piled with small green squares from 
      an ornate looking dispenser. Closing the curved lid she 
      crosses to a table, placing the tray in front of John; 
      sitting beside Aeryn in the BG as D'Argo rants.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    If I hadn't pulled those wires your 
                    precious Moya would still be 
                    wearing that control collar!

                                  PILOT
                    But in doing so you also caused 
                    Moya to hemorrhage most of her 
                      iriscentent fluid.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Leading to what result, Pilot?



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    35.
      CONTINUED:


                                  PILOT
                    Leading to our current maximum 
                    speed, which is barely Hech Two. 
                    Moya and I don't ...
                          (discussion trails off 
                            into the BG)

      Pilot's voice continues in the background while John tries to 
      get a little info from his fellow prisoner. Aeryn spears a 
      green square on the dual tines of an eating implement, 
      placing the square in her mouth awkwardly with wrists still 
      bound.

                                  JOHN
                    Why are they doing this? Feeding 
                    us?

                                  AERYN
                    They'll need information if they're 
                    going to survive. They're hoping 
                    we'll provide it.

      Okay, toss up, what's more "ew" worthy? Aeryn talking while 
      chewing a green thing, or Rygel slurping them down like ice 
      cream across the table?

                                  AERYN (CONT D)
                    I'd eat-- if I were you....

      Hesitant, John eyes the pile of green things, his bound 
      wrists in his lap. His gaze is drawn to Aeryn, observing her 
      slide the fork up her sleeve.

                                  PILOT
                          (in BG)
                      Attention! We are approaching a...

                                  AERYN
                    ...it may be the only chance we 
                    get.

      John's not certain he wants to be lumped in with this person 
      who's just beaten the crap out of him, at this moment she 
      seems just as hostile as the rest.

                                  JOHN
                    We?

      Zhaan approaches, crouching in front of them on the opposite 
      side of the table.

                                  ZHAAN
                    The ship's pilot has just informed 
                    us that we are approaching an 
                    inhabited system, with a commerce 
                      planet....



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    36.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  RYGEL
                      A commerce planet! Excellent! We 
                    need many things. Hynerian cream 
                    soap, definitely. Some fresh 
                    janeray syrup to get rid of the 
                    taste of these food cubes out of my 
                    mouth and..

                                  D'ARGO
                    We need iriscentant fluid.

                                  RYGEL
                    How dare you, you Luxan swine!

                                  D'ARGO
                    Silence your Eminence. I've been 
                    searching for a reason not to 
                    jettison you with the next refuse 
                    dump.

                                  RYGEL
                    You dump me? I bribed the 
                      maintenance drones at the last 
                      checkpoint. I secured the cell 
                    codes that allowed for your escape!

      Zhaan crosses the room, arbiter for her fellow escapees.

                                  ZHAAN
                      Gentlemen! Gentlemen, I suggest we 
                    focus on the situation at hand.

      Silencing the argument she returns to quizzing John and 
      Aeryn.

                                  ZHAAN (CONT D)
                    Before we approach this planet we 
                    must know... is there Peacekeeper 
                    presence in this system?

      Aeryn smirks, plucking a green square from the tray, she 
      drops it in her mouth, not deigning an answer. Zhaan looks to 
      John, who shrugs best he can. He's honestly clueless, 
      although she might not know that now.

                                  JOHN
                    I don't know.
                          (shrugs)
                    Wish I did.

                                  D'ARGO
                    We are wasting time we do not have. 
                    She is infantry. Peacekeeper 
                    Command tells her where to fight 
                    and die.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    37.
      CONTINUED: (3)


      There's a suspicious sound in the BG... the whistling whine 
      of escaping gas. D'Argo's voice rising to a higher pitch as 
      he speaks.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    This one...
                          (Gesturing to an 
                            uncomfortable looking 
                            John)
                    is some kind of higher brain 
                    function deficient....
                          (high pitched voice)
                    How he escaped the genetic sieving 
                    process I do not know...

                                  ZHAAN
                          (high pitched voice)
                    Rygel?

                                  JOHN
                          (high pitched voice)
                    What just happened?

                                  RYGEL
                          (high pitched voice)
                    It's a perfectly natural bodily 
                    function.
                          (sniffs)
                    And it's odorless.

                                  D'ARGO
                          (high pitched voice)
                    So your loyal subjects tell you.

                                  JOHN
                          (high pitched voice)
                    You fart helium!?

                                  RYGEL
                          (high pitched voice)
                      Sometimes, when I'm nervous.
                          (angrily)
                    Or angry!

                                  PILOT
                      Attention. I thought you'd want to 
                    know, we are entering planetary 
                    orbit.

                                  ZHAAN
                          (high pitched voice)
                    Thank you Pilot.

      D'Argo growls and there's a sudden scuffle behind Zhaan. 
      D'Argo and Aeryn grapple.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    38.
      CONTINUED: (4)


                                  JOHN
                          (high pitched voice)
                    Hey!

      John tries to intervene and is thrown across the room for his 
      trouble. D'Argo twists her arm, and the fork clatters onto 
      the table. Zhaan plucks the fork from the table and eyeballs 
      Aeryn who plucks another green cube from the table, placing 
      it in her mouth, a "So? Wha'd you expect?" look on her face.

      EXT. COMMERCE PLANET - CGI

      Atmospheric flight, Transport pod maneuvering to the cloud 
      draped surface. looks oddly like Arizona, well, in a 
      completely surreal alienish way.

      EXT. PLANET SURFACE

      A VERY large alien looking alien examines the ring Rygel 
      recovered earlier. This guy is immense, all teeth and jaws 
      and red eyes. Very puppet looking, sorry.

                                  RYGEL
                    You know, you only expose your 
                    ignorance if don't concede 
                    knowledge of the Hurlian Stone!

      The alien hisses, well, angrily. His voice, when translated, 
      a deep grating well of a sound.

                                  PROPRIETOR
                          (long hiss)
                    Twenty!

                                  RYGEL
                    Twenty barrels of fluid! There was 
                    a time when you would have been 
                      disemboweled with a. . . dull 
                    lashan spade for half such an 
                    insult to me!

      The alien hisses again, prolonged, and definitely kinda 
      pissed. Rygel cowers a bit.

                                  RYGEL (CONT D)
                          (wheedling)
                    Thirty five?

      INT. MOYA - CRICHTON'S CELL

      John sits perched on a shelf that runs the length of one of 
      the walls, muttering to himself while Aeryn works at forcing 
      the cell doors open. They are both untied, but securely 
      locked in the cell.





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    39.
      CONTINUED:


                                  JOHN
                          (to himself)
                    Boy, was Spielberg ever wrong.
                          (beat)
                    Close encounters my ass.

      Pan slowly L to Aeryn, trying to force the doors open 
      apparently using only brute strength. It's a futile effort at 
      best.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                          (muttering)
                    Wormhole. I must have come here 
                    through a wormhole.
                          (to Aeryn)
                    I must have come here through a 
                    wormhole.

      She turns to 'glare' at him, a gorgeous two shot, seen from 
      outside the cell, Aeryn through one opening, close at the 
      bars, and John through another, lower left. yeah.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                          (to himself)
                    Yeah. So, if I did come here 
                    through a wormhole... the only way 
                    I'm gonna get back is to... find 
                    another wormhole. Or create one. . 
                    . Yeah, right.

      Aeryn looks back, more than a little irritated.

                                  AERYN
                    Look-- if you want to make one of 
                    these... wormhole things of 
                    yours... how do you expect to do 
                    that from inside this cell?

      John looks away, a little tired of being taken for a fool. 
      Aeryn returns her attention to the door. John considers for a 
      moment, then reaching into the sleeve of his jacket, he 
      whistles for attention. Her shoulders sag and she turns to 
      glare at him again. He slides one of the eating utensils from 
      his sleeve. Taps the handle lightly on his nose while she 
      gapes.

      INT MOYA - CORRIDORS - A BIT LATER

      Aeryn troops down one of Moya's corridors, very long on the 
      shot as John trails behind.

                                  AERYN
                    Come on, move faster.

                                  JOHN
                    What are you doing?



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    40.
      CONTINUED:


                                  AERYN
                    I'm going to sabotage this ship.

                                  JOHN
                      Sabotage?! Give me a break, they 
                    haven't hurt us!

      Close on John and Aeryn as John lays a delaying hand briefly 
      on her arm, then jerking back a bit before she can rip it 
      off.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    How about we show them a little 
                      compassion?

                                  AERYN
                      Compassion, what is compassion?

                                  JOHN
                      Compassion? Wha... you're kidding 
                    right?

      Aeryn shakes her head, negating his expectation.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    It's a feeling that you have when 
                    you see someone else's pain and 
                    instead of taking advantage of 
                    their weakness you help 'em?

                                  AERYN
                    Oh, I know this feeling.

                                  JOHN
                    Yeah, well, it is a fairly 
                    common... human feeling.

                                  AERYN
                    Mm, I hate it.

                                  JOHN
                    You know what, I'm on the wrong 
                    team here, I'm just going to stay.

                                  AERYN
                    Fine, do what you want. But if you 
                    stay here with these lower-lives, 
                    you'll die with them.

                                  JOHN
                    Yeah, well, how do I know I can 
                    trust you?

                                  AERYN
                    You don't. That's just another 
                    thing you don't know.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    41.
      CONTINUED: (2)


      Aeryn stalks off. Leaving John, uncertain, in her wake. 
      Shortly he makes a hard decision.

                                  JOHN
                    Damn!

      And hurries after her.

      INT. MOYA - TRANSPORT HANGAR - MOMENTS LATER

      John and Aeryn enter in a hurry. Aeryn pointing at Crichton's 
      module as she stalks past.

                                  AERYN
                    What is that?

                                  JOHN
                    That's cutting edge technology.

                                  AERYN
                    We're taking mine.

      Crichton gapes as they approach the technologically superior, 
      not to mention sleek and deadly, black and red Prowler.

      EXT SPACE - MOYA - PLANETARY ORBIT

      Extreme closeup on Moya's hull as the Prowler arcs away, 
      heading down to a 'mostly brown' planet.

      EXT. SPACE - COMMAND CARRIER

      Carrier cruises too camera. Impressively large as it cruises 
      by our pov. Don't see the rear. Wonder if it has a 'we break 
      for no one' bumper sticker back there.

                                  TEEG (O.S.)
                    Captain!

      INT. COMMAND CARRIER - THE BRIDGE

      Teeg crosses to Crais at rear of Bridge area.

                                  TEEG
                    We are receiving a transmission 
                    from one of the outer systems. It's 
                    Aeryn Sun, the Prowler Pilot we 
                    thought we'd lost. She was taken 
                    captive aboard the Leviathan... but 
                    she's escaped. She has the being 
                    from the white pod with her.

      EXT. COMMERCE PLANET - MARKETPLACE

      A teeming market place, filled with various alien lifeforms. 
      Pan R to John standing in BG, taking everything in, a bright 
      awed grin. 


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    42.
      CONTINUED:

      Freezing, completely floored-- again, as he looks up. Cut to 
      city overlook (CGI), view rises into a vista of an immense 
      city, many alien spacecraft moving through the atmosphere, 
      and it hits him.

                                  JOHN
                    I'm on another planet.

      EXT. COMMERCE PLANET - MARKETPLACE - ELSEWHERE

      Long on the crowded and dingy area. More alien lifeforms. 
      Zhaan in the FG speaks to a bulbous bi-pedal creature. D'Argo 
      enters L, speaking into a comms device on his wrist. Rygel 
      floats in the far BG, still deep in negotiations.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Yes Pilot, understood.

      Disengaging his comms, D'Argo joins Zhaan, pulling her away 
      from an unheard discussion. He pulls her aside.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    The female Peacekeeper and the 
                    human have just escaped and there 
                    is a full command carrier on 
                    approach to this planet.

                                  ZHAAN
                    A full carrier? Crais. But it makes 
                    no sense for him to come after us 
                    himself.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Unless the two who just escaped are 
                    something very special. This barter 
                    session is over.

      And they hurry back toward Rygel.

      Cut to Rygel, still hovering in front of the huge Proprieter. 
      D'Argo enters shot, placing a hand on his shoulder.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    Trouble, we must go.

                                  RYGEL
                    Hm. How much are you asking for 
                    those wellan globe crystals...?!

      D'Argo yanks Rygel away from his negotiations.

      END ACT II

      ACT III

      EXT. COMMERCE PLANET - MARKETPLACE - ELSEWHERE

      Aeryn stalks up behind John, still standing awestruck.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    43.
      CONTINUED:


                                  AERYN
                    Come on. I've relayed our 
                      rendezvous point, we can get off 
                    this wastehole of a planet.

      She turns and walks back the way they came, and with a final 
      awed look he follows. Above them, a wedge of skyline in the 
      darkness (CGI), and whine of engines. They see Moya's 
      transport pod lifting off.

                                  AERYN (CONT D)
                    That's the Leviathan's pod. They're 
                    getting away! Come on, we have to 
                    report it.

      The pod passes overhead, then cut to John, catching up with 
      Aeryn.

                                  JOHN
                    Hey! Aren't we about to be rescued 
                    any minute?

      He turns her around with a hand on her arm, already careful 
      to stay out of range.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    I mean- what? They're no danger to 
                    us, right?

                                  AERYN
                    They are prisoners, escaped 
                      prisoners. They must be 
                      recaptured...

      Pan L quickly to D'Argo, standing behind them, Qualta Blade 
      at the Ready.

                                  D'ARGO (O.S.)
                    Or destroyed!

      Cut to John and Aeryn, wheeling about they run through the 
      crowd, D'Argo following. They dont' get far-- remembering the 
      alleyway is a dead end. Aeryn turns again, stiffening to a 
      defensive posture, ready for hand to hand combat. D'Argo 
      smirks.

                                  D'ARGO (CONT D)
                    Do not tempt me.

      John circles behind her, edging around toward a more viable 
      retreat.

                                  JOHN
                    You need to get out of here, 
                    there's a ship full of Peacekeepers 
                    on it's way here right now.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    44.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  AERYN
                    Traitor.

                                  D'ARGO
                    That is why I want you both aboard 
                    Moya... as insurance.

      Cut to long through crowd as a squad of uniformed and armed 
      PK's press through the crowd, making an aisle for Crais.

                                  JOHN
                    Just go, before...

      John freezes, looking at something behind D'Argo. Cut to a 
      grim looking Crais, making his way down the aisle cleared by 
      his escort of armed soldiers. Cut to close on Aeryn, her arms 
      dropping and assuming an attitude of attention. D'Argo snorts 
      in derision.

                                  D'ARGO
                    You are such fools. I will not fall 
                    for such an ancient ruse...

      Cut to Crais, standing in the open.

                                  CRAIS
                    But fall you will, Luxan.

      D'Argo spins, facing the voice.

                                  CRAIS (CONT D)
                          (nodding to the soldiers)
                    If the Luxan gives you any trouble, 
                    kill him.

      Soldiers grab D'Argo from behind as he prepares to attack 
      those in front of him. He snarls, struggling against the many 
      arms holding him back. His tongue lashes out at the soldiers 
      in front of him, but he's disarmed, the electronic whine of 
      the cuffs snapped around his wrists signifying his defeat. 
      They pull him back as Crais approaches. Aeryn steps forward.

                                  AERYN
                    Captain Crais.

      He spares her an angry glare-- moving past her toward his 
      real quarry, stepping close to John, eyeing him with apparent 
      cold disinterest.

                                  CRAIS
                    Name.

      He looks around, confused, why's he been singled out?

                                  JOHN
                    It's, uh... John Crichton.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    45.
      CONTINUED: (3)


      Crais circles behind him, evaluating him, probing with a 
      further mildly disinterested question.

                                  CRAIS
                    And where are you from... John... 
                    Crichton?

      John turns his head, trying to keep an eye on Crais as he 
      circles him. Wariness keeping him silent. Aeryn steps forward 
      helpfully.

                                  AERYN
                    Sir, he claims to be a human from a 
                    planet called Erp.

      John, looks away from Crais, cocking his head comically and 
      mouthing "erp?" with disbelief.

                                  AERYN (CONT D)
                    But he's shown himself to be...

      Crais turns away, focussing on Aeryn. Guy is on the ball, 
      knows who she is and everything.

                                  CRAIS
                    To be what, Officer Sun? A clever 
                    impostor? An accomplice to a ship 
                    full of escaping prisoners?
                          (beat)
                    My brother's murderer.

                                  JOHN
                          (stunned)
                    Your brother's what?

                                  CRAIS
                    You charged my brother's Prowler in 
                    that white... death pod of yours.

                                  JOHN
                    Wait a minute. You-you talkin' 
                    about that near miss I had the 
                    first minute I got here? Th-that 
                    was an accident.

                                  CRAIS
                    It was no near miss for my brother.

      Crais circles his prey again, this time John turns, keeping a 
      wary eye on him.

                                  CRAIS (CONT D)
                    A human? It will require some... 
                    study.

      Crais steps in close and it is an incredible two shot, John 
      and Crais in profile as Crais spits hate.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    46.
      CONTINUED: (4)


                                  CRAIS (CONT D)
                    I will personally... enjoy pulling 
                    you apart to see what you are made 
                    of.

      He nods to the PK's and they seize him roughly.

                                  JOHN
                    Hey!

      Brandishing heavy weaponry in his face, the PK's secure his 
      wrists with an electronic whine of steel cuffs. Aeryn steps 
      forward again, unthinking, perhaps remembering an implied 
      promise of escape, safety.

                                  AERYN
                    Wait.

      Crais turns, mildly surprised.

                                  CRAIS
                    Yes, Officer Sun. You know 
                    something about this... alien?

      Cuffed and angry, John watches the exchange.

                                  AERYN
                    Only that I have spent some time 
                    with him, sir, and I believe him 
                    when he says that what happened to 
                    your brother was an accident. I 
                    don't believe that he is brave 
                    enough or intelligent enough to 
                    attack one of our Prowlers 
                      intentionally.

      Crais eyes her suspiciously.

                                  CRAIS
                    Exactly how much time have you 
                    spent with this human?

      Aeryn is speechless, D'Argo uneasy, perhaps knowing something 
      John doesn't, but he does sense danger to her, stepping in to 
      protect her the only way he can.

                                  JOHN
                    Not a lot.
                          (He looks at Aeryn and 
                            their eyes meet)
                    Not much at all.

      He nods slightly to her, hoping she'll support what he's 
      saying. Crais pauses, evaluating what he has heard, 
      evaluating the meaning of the human's defense of her before 
      continuing.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    47.
      CONTINUED: (5)


                                  CRAIS
                    Because as you know, Peacekeeper 
                    High Command has very clear 
                      parameters regarding contact with 
                      unclassified alien life forms. You 
                    may have very well exceeded those 
                      parameters Officer Sun...

                                  AERYN
                          (clearly terrified)
                    No, sir...

                                  CRAIS
                    ...which would make you 
                      irreversibly contaminated.

                                  AERYN
                    No, sir, I...

                                  CRAIS
                    Take them away. Take them all away.

      The uniformed PK's begin herding John, Aeryn and D'Argo away.

                                  PK OFFICER
                    Move!

                                  PK OFFICER 2
                    Prepare them for transit while we 
                    locate the other prisoners.

      Pulled away, D'Argo hurls one final assault at Crais.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Warrior to warrior, I vow, one day 
                    I will kill you!

                                  PK OFFICER
                    Keep moving.

                                  PK OFFICER 2
                    Come on!

      EXT SPACE - PLANETARY ORBIT - MOYA - CGI

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Close on Rygel, perched on his chair in front of a large 
      table, slurping down something that looks like, what... ah, 
      caviar? Disgusting. Zhaan enters, crossing to the table 
      quickly.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Pilot, how's it coming?





                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    48.
      CONTINUED:


                                  PILOT
                    Fluid tanks are nearly full. Should 
                    be another minute or two.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Any word from D'Argo?

                                  PILOT
                    None. I'm sorry.

      INT. INDETERMINATE LOCATION - CONTAINMENT FACILITY

      Close on Crichton, in a world of trouble and knowing it, 
      resigned after the many shocks of the day. His cuffed hands 
      on the wall above an open doorway, enduring a patdown search 
      by one of the black clad PK's. Behind him, D'Argo and Aeryn 
      decend a short flight of stairs accompanied by another PK.

                                  PK OFFICER
                    Right, turn around.

      John turns, as ordered, the PK removes a chain from around 
      his neck, pulling it off over his head. The goodluck charm 
      his father gave him.

                                  PK OFFICER (CONT D)
                    What is this thing?

      Brief closeup on the puzzle ring in the PK's gloved hand.

                                  JOHN
                    It's a toy, a puzzle. You have to 
                    figure out how to take it apart and 
                    put it back together again.

                                  PK OFFICER
                    A field resource exercise?

                                  JOHN
                          (dry laugh)
                          Yeah. Something like that.

      John watches the soldier fumble with the ring, an idea 
      emerging, decides to be helpful.

                                  PK OFFICER
                    All right.

                                  JOHN
                    Here. Pull that loop through there.

                                  PK OFFICER
                    Yeah?

                                  JOHN
                    Yeah, that one.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    49.
      CONTINUED:


                                  PK OFFICER 2 (O.S.)
                    Turn around!

                                  PK OFFICER
                    Yeah right, I got the hang of this.

      Close on the ring segments, loose in the PK's gloved palm.

                                  JOHN
                    Now figure out how to put it back 
                    together again.

                                  PK OFFICER 2
                    What is this? It's a weapon you 
                    fool, now give it here before you 
                    activate it...

      The second officer tries to take the ring away from John's 
      lil buddy and they struggle over it.

                                  PK OFFICER
                    No, don't do that!

      Seeing his chance, John grabs a small pistol from one of the 
      PK's belts, and drives them together and into the wall with a 
      strong shove. He dashes up the short flight of stairs.

                                  PK OFFICER (CONT D)
                    Hey! Hey, you!

      At the top of the stairs he spins around, aiming the weapon 
      at the small group of guards.

                                  JOHN
                    Freeze!

      And it fires! Almost taking off his head, he's holding it 
      reversed. Everyone cowers as the energy bolt ricochets around 
      the room.

                                  PK OFFICER
                    Down, get down! Down!

      Aeryn, D'Argo and the PK's duck for cover as he reverses the 
      weapon. The weapon fires again-- looks accidental to me as he 
      mishandles the pistol initially.

                                  PK OFFICER (CONT D)
                    Hey!

      Aeryn and D'Argo rush up the stairs, into a relatively safe 
      zone behind the maniac with the gun!

                                  PK OFFICER (CONT D)
                    Get him!




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    50.
      CONTINUED: (2)


      Finally getting a grip on the thing, he fires a few more 
      shots with better control. The PK's cower, heavily armed 
      themselves, they don't wanna get shot! John backs away a bit 
      more.

                                  JOHN
                    Don't move! Or I'll fill you full 
                    of...
                          (he can't believe he's 
                            saying this)
                    ...little yellow bolts of light...


                                      END ACT III                                                                                    51.


                                        ACT IV

      INT. INDETERMINATE LOCATION - CONTAINMENT FACILITY

      Continuous from end of Act III, JC panting and breathless at 
      the head of the stairs, Aeryn and D'Argo standing to his 
      left, the pair of PK's hunched against the wall.

                                  JOHN
                    Throw me the key!

      The PK in the rear, tosses the key toward him and he catches 
      the small object.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    On the ground, now!

      They comply, stretching out on the dirt floor.

                                  PK OFFICER 2
                    Give up now, Officer Sun. You might 
                    avoid the death sentence.

      John fumbles with the key, trying to unlock the cuffs on his 
      wrists, but it's a bad angle and he can't get the key in, 
      manipulate the lock and keep an eye on the guards waiting 
      their chance to retake their prisoners.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Unlock me then I will unlock you.

                                  AERYN
                    No, me.

      John hesitates, looking from one to the other, he's not got a 
      real good choice here either way.

                                  AERYN (CONT D)
                    Come on, there isn't time.

      Making a decision, John shoves the key in D'Argo's hands.

                                  JOHN
                    Unlock me.

      The PK's, sensing a distraction and make a move. John's not 
      that distracted.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Down!

      They cower back as he fires another warning shot. Meanwhile, 
      D'Argo struggles to unlock his own cuffs, but is faced with 
      the same logistical problem as John. John's edgy and scared, 
      but manages a frustrated laugh, edged with just a touch of 
      hysteria.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    52.
      CONTINUED:


                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    If you run... you're going to have 
                    to find someone to unlock you. Then 
                    you're going to have to explain 
                    these Peacekeeper handcuffs.

                                  PK OFFICER 2
                    Give up now, Officer Sun. You might 
                    avoid the death sentence.

      D'Argo growls and releases John's cuffs, letting them clatter 
      to the floor. John takes the key.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Now unlock me.

                                  AERYN
                    No, he is a criminal!

                                  JOHN
                    We all are.

                                  PK OFFICER 2
                    Officer Sun! They are...

                                  JOHN
                    Can you get me away from here?

                                  D'ARGO
                    What?!

                                  JOHN
                    Can you get me off this rock, away 
                    from these over-amp'd Rent-a-Cops, 
                    away from Crais.
                          (beat)
                    And we take her too.

                                  D'ARGO
                    What? Never! I will take you, you 
                    are manageable but she...

                                  JOHN
                          (shouting)
                    If she stays... we all stay.

      John tries to keep an eye on everyone while D'Argo works it 
      out, but it's too many difficult decisions. John makes it for 
      him, offering him the small weapon. D'Argo grunts in resigned 
      anger, taking the weapon and holding it on the huddled 
      guards. John releases his cuffs and turns toward Aeryn, but 
      she pulls away from him.

                                  AERYN
                    No. I will not come with you!

      John works at getting the cuffs unlocked.


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    53.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  JOHN
                    You've been irreversibly 
                      contaminated, remember?

                                  D'ARGO
                    It means death.

      John pulls her closer, trying to unlock the cuffs, his 
      concern for her shockingly evident.

                                  AERYN
                    It's my duty, my breeding? Since 
                    birth, it's what I am.

      Completely unimpressed.

                                  JOHN
                    You can be more.

      She stares at him, uncertain, her eyes darting around the 
      room at all she knows, but allows John to remove the cuffs.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

      The Prowler approaches the outer hanger door, cruising 
      inside, shot pans R following the Prowler into the caverous 
      transport hangar.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

                                  ZHAAN
                    Say again, Pilot.

                                  PILOT
                    It is D'Argo... in the arriving 
                    Prowler. He is telling us to leave 
                    orbit immediately.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Thank Kahalaan!

                                  PILOT
                    The Peacekeeper female and that... 
                    other one... are with him.

                                  RYGEL
                    Can't you see he's under duress? 
                    It's a trap!
                            (blustering)
                    Isolate them in the transport 
                    hanger and...

                                  ZHAAN
                    Pilot, break orbit.

                                  PILOT
                      Destination?


                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    54.
      CONTINUED:


      D'Argo arrives, John and Aeryn in tow.

                                  D'ARGO
                    The Uncharted Territories.
                          (to Zhaan)
                    I'll explain later.

      John and Aeryn hang back from the others gathered around the 
      large table.

                                  PILOT
                    Your attention.

      A holo display erupts from the edge of the table. John and 
      Aeryn move closer, joining the rest examining the display-- a 
      small blue icon representing the shape of the Command 
      Carrier.

                                  PILOT (CONT D)
                    Distance between the pursuing 
                      Peacekeeper carrier and Moya... 
                    sixty metras and closing. They are 
                    bringing around their frag cannons.

                                  JOHN
                    "Frag cannons?"

                                  D'ARGO
                    What is the range of their frag 
                    cannons?

                                  PILOT
                    I'm afraid neither Moya nor I, is 
                      sufficiently conversed in... 
                      Peacekeeper technology.

      They all turn eyes on Aeryn.

                                  AERYN
                          (reluctantly)
                      Forty-five metras.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

      Moya heading away from the planet, to camera, the Command 
      Carrier in the BG in pursuit.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

                                  JOHN
                    Let's just do another one of 
                    those... Starburst things.

                                  ZHAAN
                    There's no time. The Leviathan must 
                    restore her energy reserves.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    55.
      CONTINUED:


      Close on the holo-display showing the closing Carrier, 
      Pilot's image in the clamshell in the BG. Holo-on-holo. Cool.

                                  PILOT
                    Fifty metras...

      Desperation fills the entire room. Abruptly, John gets an 
      idea, backing away from the table, brandishing a pen.

                                  JOHN
                          (urgently)
                    I need paper.

                                  AERYN
                    Paper?

                                  JOHN
                    To write on.

      John backs away fully distracted by the emerging plan

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Turn the ship around, we need to...

      Giving up on the paper, he drops to his knees, beginning to 
      draw symbols on the floor.

                                  RYGEL
                    What?

                                  JOHN
                    ...go back toward the planet.

                                  RYGEL
                    Go back to the planet?!

      EXT. SPACE - COMMAND CARRIER

      Closing the distance, moving toward our POV. Cut to close on 
      the massive wheel that contains three gigantic cannon mounted 
      inside.

                                  PILOT (O.S.)
                    Frag cannons are locking on.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Zhaan crouches beside John.

                                  ZHAAN
                    Crichton, what are you doing?

                                  JOHN
                    It's a theory. It has to do with 
                      overcoming atmospheric friction.




                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    56.
      CONTINUED:


                                  RYGEL
                    Are you completely insane?!

      EXT. SPACE - COMMAND CARRIER

      Close on the frag cannons, pivioting to aim, directly to 
      camera.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      John's completely in the zone, disregarding outside input, 
      this seems to be their only option and he's not considering 
      that they might not follow along with his plan.

                                  JOHN
                    Listen, we're going to have to hit 
                    a pretty exact trajectory.
                          (looking to Pilot's image)
                    Can you do that?

                                  PILOT
                    I'm doing all that I can 
                      maintaining Moya's regular systems 
                    at this speed.

                                  JOHN
                            (distracted)
                    Well, can this ship... thing, be 
                    flown manually?

                                  RYGEL
                      Manually!?

                                  D'ARGO
                    Yes, but there are...

                                  JOHN
                    Good! Then you do it.

      He returns his attention to the floor.

                                  D'ARGO
                          (between gritted teeth)
                    I am not trained as a pilot.

      What is with these people! Interrupted again, his frustration 
      approaching frenzy.

                                  JOHN
                    Fine!
                          (to Aeryn)
                    You're the experienced pilot, you 
                    fly.

      He returns to writing on the deck, not even considering any 
      other possibility than compliance.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    57.
      CONTINUED:


                                  AERYN
                    No.

                                  RYGEL
                    This is madness!

      EXT. SPACE - COMMAND CARRIER

      Closing the distance.

      INT. COMMAND CARRIER - THE BRIDGE

                                  CRAIS
                    Weapons control... full charge.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Crichton continues writing on the floor, Zhaan beside him 
      watching. She stands, her beringed hands raised in a 
      silencing gesture, her expression grim.

                                  ZHAAN
                    It appears our only alternative is 
                    death.

      D'Argo growls and grabs Aeryn by the arm, dragging her over 
      to the manual flight control station.

                                  RYGEL
                          (smirking)
                    What a charmer.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Pilot, give me maneuverability now!

                                  PILOT
                    We may dodge one shot but never...

      ZHAAN &

                                  D'ARGO
                          (shouting)
                    Do it!

      INT. MOYA - PILOT'S DEN

      Med on Pilot, growling in annoyance as he activates a control 
      panel, and...

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      A large 'joy stick' rotates from the panel by Aeryn and 
      D'Argo, Aeryn's hand grips it firmly.                                                                                    58.



      EXT. SPACE - COMMAND CARRIER

      Closing the final distance, the Command Carrier roars past 
      our POV.

      INT. COMMAND CARRIER - THE BRIDGE

                                  CRAIS
                    Fire.

      EXT. SPACE - COMMAND CARRIER - MOYA

      The huge trio of cannon fire, heavy energy bolts streaking 
      away, missing Moya by a small space. Moya rolls to her 
      starboard side, one of the bolts flaring against her 
      underbelly.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Close on Aeryn, manually piloting the ship.

      INT. COMMAND CARRIER - THE BRIDGE

                                    WEAPONS OFFICER
                    Target is banking...

                                  CRAIS
                      Reacquire!

                                    WEAPONS OFFICER
                      ...banking towards us, sir!

                                  TEEG
                    She's accelerating, sir!

      Cut to forward view, Moya's hull blocking the view from the 
      circular forward portal as she speeds by close enough to feel 
      the vibrations, heading back toward the planet.

      Crais steps in, taking over the weapons control station, his 
      hands flying over the controls.

                                  CRAIS
                          (muttering)
                    We end this... now!

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Aeryn, piloting, cut to forward portal, the planet looming 
      large. John's voice is raised over the loud hum of the 
      engines.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    Just go for the maximum.

      Cut to John, still crouched on the floor.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    59.
      CONTINUED:


                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Let the planet's gravity pull us 
                    in.

                                  D'ARGO
                    Hetch nine!

      Zhaan kneels beside the table.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    Dive straight into the atmosphere.

      John crosses to stand beside Aeryn, lifting his arm to 
      demonstrate the angle desired he needs.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                      Twenty-eight to thirty-eight 
                    degrees, you got it?

      Aeryn looks at him like he's nuts, she spares a quick glance 
      to D'Argo, maybe to see if he agrees.

                                  RYGEL
                          (hanging on to a vibrating 
                            console)
                    Do it if you're gonna do it!

      Cut to the forward portal, the brown planet all but filling 
      it.

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    More speed, more speed to sling-
                    shot us out!

                                  PILOT
                    We are there!

      Close on Aeryn's hand, pulling back on the stick.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA - PLANETARY ORBIT

      The ship, nose down to the planet, begins to pull up. A flare 
      of white heat from the nose as she skims across the 
      atmosphere.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Zhaan's tense expression. Everyone bracing against the 
      velocity of the ship.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

      Moya trails fire as her speed builds.                                                                                    60.



      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Aeryn shoots a glare at John who is focussing on the forward 
      portal, waiting for the moment.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

      Moya trails a broad cometlike tail as she cruises at speed 
      over the planet.

      INT. COMMAND CARRIER - THE BRIDGE

                                  TEEG
                    Sir, the Leviathan, she's... 
                    about...

                                  CRAIS
                    I can see that, Lieutenant.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA

                                  JOHN (O.S.)
                    Pull out... pull out, now!

      The ship arcs up, sparking a final moment in the atmosphere.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Close on D'Argo's tense expression, cut to close on John, 
      tense and shaken.

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA - PLANETARY ORBIT - DEEP SPACE

      Breaking the grip of planet's gravity, the Leviathan shoots 
      off into deep space at breakneck speed.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Zhaan relaxes, a relieved sigh.

      INT. COMMAND CARRIER - THE BRIDGE

                                  TEEG
                    She's off our scanners sir. We've 
                    lost her.

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Rygel pulls himself up from below the table. Surprised to be 
      alive.

                                  RYGEL
                    Mm?

                                  PILOT
                    It's gone.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    61.
      CONTINUED:


      Kneeling on the floor beside Aeryn, John looks up at her as 
      Zhaan crosses to stand beside him.

                                  JOHN
                    Thank you.

                                  PILOT
                    It's gone!

                                  ZHAAN
                    You can let go now John.

      Zhaan helps the somewhat shaken John to his feet.

                                  ZHAAN (CONT D)
                    Thank you.

      She takes his face in her hands, and turning his head, 
      presses her ear to his tightly -- he's 'jolted' by the 
      contact.

      Close on D'Argo's reaction; a slight 'whoo' sound, shaking 
      his head. Cut to close on John, even more bewildered than 
      before. He looks toward Aeryn and she looks away quickly, 
      embarrassed or uncomfortable or both. John exhales heavily, 
      tipping his head to his left shoulder, an audible pop as the 
      vertabre crack.

      END ACT IV

      TAG

      INT. MOYA - COMMAND

      Silent and vacant, for now, except for a single DRD.

      INT. MOYA - TRANSPORT HANGAR

      Close on John's hand, pulling a component from the inside of 
      his module. He shoves the component inside the gray carry 
      sack and climbs down from the wing of Farscape One, walking 
      slowly toward the exit.

      INT. MOYA - CENTER CHAMBER

      D'Argo slowly and reverently polishes the length of his sword 
      blade.

      INT. MOYA - ZHAAN'S CELL

      Soft chanting, from inside the cell, the view through the 
      closed bars. Inside a small table is draped with a golden 
      sheet, resting on top is a medium sized chest and a couple of 
      delicate decanters. Pan R to the bed, Zhaan's bare back 
      toward the camera, arms resting on knees, she's the source of 
      the soft chanting.                                                                                    62.



      INT. MOYA - COMMAND - LATER

      John enters slowly, glancing cautiously around, a small 
      smile, and he steps inside. A hissing growl and D'Argo is 
      there, from behind the door, grabbing him by the shoulders.

                                  D'ARGO
                    We need to talk.

      But John has had enough of the beatings for one day. 
      Furiously angry he shoves him off, his bag falling to the 
      floor.

                                  JOHN
                    Get your hands off me!

                                  D'ARGO
                    Oh, you have a warrior's instinct. 
                    Good. We'll need that.

                                  JOHN
                    Cool.

      Tactical error, John takes his eyes off him, leaning down to 
      fetch his bag from the floor. D'Argo hurls him across the 
      room. John slams against the wall. D'Argo unsheaths his 
      weapon, quickly pressing the tip against John's neck.

                                  D'ARGO
                    I have spent eight degrading cycles 
                    aboard this ship and now I am 
                    finally liberated.

      Yep, definitely not amenable to force.

                                  JOHN
                      Congratulations.

      D'Argo hisses, pressing the point deeper to get his point 
      across. John rises on his toes, lifting his chin, trying to 
      avoid more serious damage.

                                  D'ARGO
                    I don't know who you are, where 
                    you're from or what you want. But 
                    if you threaten my freedom... I'll 
                    kill you.

      D'Argo backs away, and after one final glare, exits. John 
      relaxes slowly, pressing a thumb against the slight redness 
      on his neck. Sighing-- it's just not his day-- he crosses the 
      room, lifting his bag from the floor, looking up at a 
      familiar voice.

                                  AERYN (O.S.)
                    They're a brutal race.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    63.
      CONTINUED:


      Cut to Aeryn, standing behind a support structure across the 
      room, silent witness to John and D'Argo's last little brawl. 
      Looking through one of those triangular openings Andrew 
      Prowse used when he shot that lovely John/Stark scene for 
      LGM1 *sigh*

                                  AERYN (CONT D)
                      Uncivilized. Indiscriminate in 
                    their deployment of violence.

      Mildly sour, he crosses the room, bag in hand.

                                  JOHN
                    Right... unlike your people.

                                  AERYN
                    My people... might have helped you 
                    if you hadn't put us in this 
                    position.

      John strips the white jacket off, tossing it on the table 
      next to the bag.

                                  JOHN
                    Me? No, no, no. Try your boy, 
                    Crais.

                                  AERYN
                    So you haven't forgotten about him? 
                    I know he hasn't forgotten about 
                    you.

                                  JOHN
                    Yeah, well the ah, transparent 
                    purple guy-- what's his name... 
                    Pilot?

      John removes the Flight Recorder from the bag, laying it on 
      the table.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    He said we've passed into the 
                    Uncharted Territories, and that 
                    your people don't have 
                      jurisdiction.

      He withdraws a small voice recorder from the bag.

                                  AERYN
                    Crais thinks you killed his 
                    brother. In such a case would you 
                    obey jurisdictional boundaries?

      Huh. John freezes, a bit disturbed by the idea, he turns to 
      look at her as shecrosses the room, eyeing him closely, smug 
      expression on her face.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    64.
      CONTINUED: (2)


                                  AERYN (CONT D)
                    Listen to me. If you want to live, 
                    choose your allegiances carefully. 
                    That's not to say that there's any 
                      guarantees there.

      Aeryn exits, leaving John staring after her. A squeak on the 
      table behind him draws his attention, slightly startled. The 
      DRD, antenna drooping, rolls forward on the table. John 
      relaxes, moving his fingers in a 'come hither' gesture.

                                  JOHN
                          (gently)
                    Come here.
                          (sitting)
                          The DRD squeaks at him but 
                            doesn't move.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    I'm not going to hurt you... come 
                    here.

      The DRD rolls toward him. He clicks the record button on the 
      side of a miniature tape recorder, and taking a roll of blue 
      electrical tape in hand, he begins to speak...

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Hey, dad, it worked. DK's and my 
                    theory, it actually-- worked...
                          (brief pause)
                    Sort of. Look, I know this is, 
                    ah... crazy--
                          (tears off a strip of blue 
                            tape)
                    I mean you're never going to get 
                    this message, but I just... wanted 
                    to let you know that I'm alive.

      He reaches out, strip of tape in hand, gently grasping the 
      bent antenna, but the DRD tries to wriggle away.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                          (softly)
                    Oh, hold still, hold still.

      He lifts the limp antenna and begins wrapping the blue tape 
      around the damaged area.

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Don't know where I am. Technically, 
                    I don't know how I got here, but... 
                    I'm not gonna stop trying to get 
                    home.

      The light flickers on at the tip of the damaged antenna, and 
      John smiles.



                                                                              (CONTINUED)                                                                                    65.
      CONTINUED: (3)


                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    See? You're fixed.
                          (a 'shooing' gesture)
                    Go play.

      The DRD rolls backward.

                                  RYGEL
                    Hm.

      Rygel, somehow appearing soundlessly, reaches out toward the 
      small recorder. John grabs his hand, thrusting it away.

                                  JOHN
                    Hey! What the hell are you doing?

                                  RYGEL
                    Your equipment may be worth 
                    something in trade.

                                  JOHN
                    My equipment. It's mine.

                                  RYGEL
                    Are you a sound sleeper?

      Rygel chuckles, and hovers away. Leaving John alone with his 
      thoughts again.

                                  JOHN
                    And there's life out here Dad. 
                    Weird, amazing... psychotic life... 
                    and death... in Technicolor.

      Shot widens slowly as he continues...

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Hey, Dad... you know those... 
                    rattlers in the stomach we talked 
                    about? Well, I got 'em now.

      Shot continues to widen, John sits quietly, one hand snapping 
      off the recorder. Fade to...

      EXT. SPACE - MOYA - THE UNCHARTED TERRITORIES

      Moya glides through a deep void, in the far distance a large 
      galactic spiral glows.

      ROLL CLOSING CREDITS