                                    THE HUNDRED


                                      written by
                                  Jason Rothenberg


                                Based on the novel 
                                  by Kass Morgan
















                                                            SECOND NETWORK REWRITE
                                                              1.16.13





  2012 Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. This script is the property 
of Warner Bros. Entertainment, Inc. No portion of this script may 
be performed, reproduced or used by any means, or disclosed to, 
quoted or published in any medium without the prior written
consent of Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.                                            TEASER

      A YOUNG WOMAN S VOICE begins our tale.  We sense even now 
      that CLARKE is struggling with things beyond her nearly 18 
      years.  Things that will either kill her or make her a hero.  

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    By the time the last war was over, 
                    so were man s days on Earth. 

      FADE UP:  SPACE.  Near Earth orbit.  Countless mushroom 
      clouds erupt all across the surface of the planet below.  

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    Not that it mattered really.  The 
                    bombs just sped things up.  We d 
                    been slowly killing the planet for 
                    two hundred years.  Poisoning it.  
                    Depleting it.  Taking whatever we 
                    could get our hands on.  What we 
                    now call  the Big Death  was just 
                    the grand finale.  

      Suddenly, a gleaming, multi-ringed space station drifts into 
      view, the outer ring emblazoned with the Stars and Stripes.

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                      Fortunately, there were survivors.  

      As the American space station orbits away, a second, Mir-
      style, modular station rises over the distant horizon.

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    Twelve nations had operational 
                    space stations.  All told, three 
                    hundred and eighteen souls were in 
                    the right place at the wrong time.  

      BLACKNESS.

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    The wrong time has lasted for 
                      ninety-seven years.

      FADE UP:  SPACE.  Near Earth orbit.  The mushroom clouds are 
      gone.  The daylight half of the planet appears unchanged.  
      The night half is pitch black.  No people means no lights.    

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    Three generations have been born in 
                    space.  None of the four thousand 
                    and nine of us who now live has 
                    ever stepped foot on the ground.  
                                  (MORE)                                                                                      2

                                  CLARKE (V.O.) (CONT'D)
                    We ve never felt the sun on our 
                    faces.  Never breathed real air. 

      Again, we spot A DISTANT SPACE STATION on the horizon.      
      As WE SOAR TOWARD IT, details will begin to emerge. 

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    For us, there is only the Ark.   
                    One station forged from the many.

      CLOSER NOW and we realize that what we thought was another 
      space station is actually a conglomeration of all twelve.     
      Essentially a massive, orbiting Rube Goldberg machine. 

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    Our scientists estimate that Earth 
                    needs another hundred years to 
                    become survivable again.  Another 
                    hundred years to wash away the 
                      radiation.  Four more space-locked 
                      generations and man can go home.  

      CLOSER STILL and we re struck by the Ark s ramshackle state. 
      Every part on this station is over a hundred years old and it 
      shows.  The exterior is pockmarked and covered in grime.  

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                      Everything we do, every decision, 
                    every allocation of resources, 
                      everything is about staying alive 
                    long enough for the human race to 
                    make it back to the ground...  

      The outermost module of the Ark rises into view.  A grid of 
      filthy portholes.  One is suddenly right in front of us.  

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    The ground.  That s the dream...


      INT. THE ARK - PUSHING THROUGH THE PORTHOLE

      ...we find ourselves in A DARKENED ROOM where a young woman 
      is drawing by the dim Earthlight thrown from the porthole.

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    This is reality...

      CLOSER NOW and we see the image on her pad: an impressively 
      rendered landscape.  A forest.  Majestic.

      CLARKE (17, smarter than she is pretty, but not by much)    
      is lost in the drawing.  For this moment, she is not space-
      locked.  She is in a forest.  And she s at peace.                                                                                         3


      Then the morning ALARM blasts over the PA.  Two short bursts.   
      With it, the lights come on and we re struck by how fair   
      she is.  Hers is indeed skin that s never seen the sun.  

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    Reality sucks.

      As she s jerked back into the cramped reality of what we now 
      realize is A PRISON CELL, deep sadness washes over her. 

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    When the survival of a species is 
                    your goal, a single member of that 
                    species means nothing.  That s why, 
                    on the Ark, every crime, no matter 
                    how small, is punishable by 
                    death... Unless you re under 18.  

      Reverie shattered, she stands, burying the sadness, hardening 
      before our eyes.  What we see on the walls is revealing:  

      Every inch of space is covered by drawings of Earth.  Mostly 
      scenes of nature, but there are human structures, too.  We 
      already knew she was talented.  Now we know she s obsessed.  

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    Juvenile offenders get put here.  
                    Lock up.  We call it  the sky box.    

      She reaches for a shelf, takes an eyedropper from a small 
      vial marked H2O, squeezes a few drops onto her tongue.

      As she stands there, savoring it, we see a lone photograph on 
      the shelf:

      5-YEAR-OLD CLARKE and her young PARENTS beneath a willow tree 
      in an atrium on the Ark.  Happier times.  We know it s on the 
      Ark because the Earth is visible through windows behind them. 

                                  CLARKE (V.O.)
                    At 18, all cases are reviewed.  
                    Most prisoners get released back 
                    into the population.  The rest of 
                    us, prisoners like me, so-called 
                    traitors to our people, get 
                    released, too... Through an 
                    airlock, floated into space.  
                    There s no oxygen, it s 450 degrees 
                    below zero and the pressure 
                      differential of the vacuum bursts 
                    your organs... but, hey, at least 
                    you ve got a nice view.

      Just then comes the sound of A KEY IN THE DOOR.                                                                                        4


      It shoots her through with fear.  There s barely time to turn 
      before TWO ARMED GUARDS storm the cell.  

                                  GUARD #1
                    Prisoner 3-1-9, face the wall!

      Clarke s eyes go to the open door for a moment, but, as the 
      guards converge, she obeys, turning to face the wall.

                                  CLARKE
                    ... What is this?

                                  GUARD #1
                    Quiet!  Hold out your right arm!

      He grabs her arm, but she resists, starting to panic now, 
      assuming they re here for her execution... 

                                  CLARKE
                    ... Wait.  It s not my time.  I 
                    don t turn 18 for another month.

      Guard #2 draws a shock baton, fires it up.  The deep THRUM 
      alone is enough to bring compliance.  As Clarke holds out her 
      right arm, we see that she wears a man s wristwatch. 

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    ... Just check my file.  Please.  
                    You re early.  You ll see that. 

      The guards ignore her.  They have work to do here.  Guard #1 
      removes A WIDE METALLIC CUFF from a storage case lined with 
      them, opens the device and moves it toward Clarke s wrist. 

      She has no idea what it is, but the dozens of barbed probes 
      that line the inside are clearly going to hurt.  

                                  GUARD #1
                    Take off her watch.

                                  CLARKE
                    ... No.  It was my father s.

      The guards don t care.  If they could see her face, they d 
      know what we know:  No way she s letting them take her watch.

      Guard #2 is reaching for her wrist when an elbow EXPLODES 
      into his solar-plexus.  As he buckles, Clarke spins, shoving 
      him hard into Guard #1 and making a break for the door.  

      There s fear in her face.  She knows this can t end well.  
      Doesn t care.  Behind her, the guards recover fast, but not 
      before Clarke is out the door, SLAMMING it closed.                                                                                        5


      INT. CELL BLOCK - CONTINUOUS

      Her mind races, trying not to panic, straining for next 
      moves, when what she finds in the corridor stops her cold:

      All along the cell block, on floors above and below,     
      JUVENILE PRISONERS are being led out of their cells.      
      Each of them is badly shaken and in some pain from the 
      IDENTICAL WRISTBANDS now biting into their wrists.  

      Before Clarke can even begin to make sense of all the 
      activity, POUNDING from inside her cell gets attention.   

                                  ABBY (O.S.)
                    Clarke, stop!  They ll hurt you!

      Emotion crashes like a wave as Clarke turns to see a WOMAN in 
      a white lab coat rushing toward her along the rail.

                                  CLARKE
                    ... Mom?

      Despite twelve years and infinite sadness, we recognize 
      Clarke s mother from the photograph.  ABBY is 40 now with an 
      air of seriousness that comes from authority.  

      More GUARDS are converging, but Abby s presence gives them 
      pause as she wraps her daughter in her arms... 

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    ... Mom, what is this?        
                    What s going on?

      Abby can t speak.  Holding her child for both the first time 
      in almost a year and, quite possibly, the last time ever 
      scrambles her thoughts.

      Clarke pulls back, looking from the pain in her mother s eyes 
      to the rows of young inmates as a terrifying thought strikes.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    They re killing us all, aren t 
                    they?  Reducing population to make 
                    more time for the rest of you. 

                                  ABBY
                          (guiding her aside)
                    No.  Quiet.  That secret s already 
                    done enough damage to this family.

                                  CLARKE
                    Wrong, keeping it has.  People have 
                    a right to know the Ark is dying.                                                                                      6


      Both of them hate the fact that they can t get past this, 
      hate the fact that it divides them even now, but the sight of   
      A GUARD RECEIVING ORDERS in an earpiece changes the subject.   

                                  ABBY
                    Clarke, please, just listen.     
                    This is not what you think.  You re 
                    not being executed.  You re being 
                    sent to the ground.  All one 
                    hundred of you. 

      Clarke blinks.  The meaning of that is so incomprehensible 
      that it s as if she doesn t understand the words...

                                  CLARKE
                    ... What?  But it s not safe.     
                    No.  We get reviewed at 18.  

                                  ABBY
                    The rules have changed.  There are 
                    no prisoner reviews anymore.  This 
                    gives you a chance to live. 

      Abby sees the guard lining up a shot with a tranq gun.  She 
      knows that this is goodbye, touches her daughter s face...     

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Your instinct will be to take   
                    care of everyone else first,    
                    just like your father, but be 
                    careful.  I can t lose you, too. 

      Tears stream from her eyes.  She sees how frightened Clarke 
      is, but there s nothing more she can say.  

      And no time to say it.

      THE DART STRIKES, the drug hits, and Clarke collapses back 
      into her mother s arms as EVERYTHING GOES BLACK.

                                  ABBY (O.S.) (CONT D)
                    Earth, Clarke.  You get to go     
                    to Earth.

      MAIN TITLES: THE HUNDRED



                                          END TEASER                                                                                      7


                                            ACT ONE


      INT. THE DROPSHIP - DAY

      FADE UP:  We re still in CLARKE S POV as consciousness 
      returns.  Her eyes travel around the stark compartment, 
      before a smiling FACE TAKES SHAPE FROM OUT OF THE BLUR.

      WELLS JAHA (17, handsome and well-bred compared to the young 
      criminals all around them) is relieved that Clarke is okay.

                                  WELLS
                    Welcome back.  

      NORMAL VIEW RETURNS as the sight of Wells fills Clarke with 
      rage.  She lunges at him...

                                  CLARKE
                    ... You sonofabitch!

      A safety harness holds her back.  FORTY OTHER PRISONERS are 
      strapped in just like her.  Despite delinquent bravado, all 
      are terrified.  Clarke s bearings flood back.  She remembers: 

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    ... Earth.

      Pain shoots through her right arm.  She looks to see the 
      wristband now locked in place there.  She finds her father s 
      watch on her other wrist.  Her mother must have moved it.

                                  WELLS
                    Look, I know we broke up, but --

                                  CLARKE
                    Wells, why the hell are you here?!

      The vitriol in her eyes cuts Wells, but he understands it...

                                  WELLS
                    When I found out they were sending 
                    the prisoners to the ground, I got 
                    myself arrested... I came for you.

      Clarke glares at him, multiple levels of disbelief in her 
      eyes, but before she can respond...

                                  A GIRL ACROSS FROM THEM
                    Aww, the royal couple s fighting.

      LAUGHTER is cut short when the ship is suddenly JOLTED.      
        A collective GASP.  Clarke and Wells grip their seats.                                                                                       8


                                  CLARKE
                    ... What was that?

                                  WELLS
                    That... was the atmosphere.

      She looks over again, awe temporarily swamping hatred,  
      before another, even bigger JOLT wipes it away.

      As if triggered by the bumps, VIDEO MONITORS around the cabin 
      suddenly flash to life with a pre-recorded message:  

      A man in a suit appears.  CHANCELLOR JAHA, 47, is handsome, 
      almost regal, deadly serious...

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    Prisoners of the Ark, hear me now.  
                    You ve been given a second chance.

      Despite this group s almost universal resentment of 
      authority, in this moment of terror, the appearance of     
      the ultimate authority figure provides some with relief.  

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS) (CONT D)
                    As your Chancellor, it is my hope 
                    that you see this as not just a 
                    chance for you, but for all of us.  
                    Indeed, for mankind itself...

      Wells reacts differently.  His eyes FILL.  Clarke looks over, 
      but he refuses to meet her stare as she WHISPERS:  

                                  CLARKE (OVERLAPPING)
                    Sending his own son to die on the 
                    ground.  Now that s leadership.

                                  VOICE IN THE CROWD (OVERLAPPING)
                    Your dad s a dick, Wells.


      EXT. THE DROPSHIP - REENTRY - SAME TIME

      The dropship, like the Ark, has been cobbled together.   
      Three levels stacked from largest to smallest.  Pyramidal. 

      Right now, it s in free-fall, sparks becoming flames as the 
      heat shield meets the thickening atmosphere.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (V.O.)
                    You have just begun the descent 
                    into Earth s atmosphere.  I won t 
                    lie.  We have no idea what waits 
                    for you down there...                                                                                        9


      INT. THE DROPSHIP - SAME TIME

      The violence of reentry will build through all of the 
      following.  So will the heat... and the fear.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS) 
                    If the odds of survival were 
                    better, we would have sent others. 
                    Frankly, we re sending you because 
                    your crimes have made you... 
                      expendable.  If, however, you do 
                    survive, then those crimes will   
                    be forgiven.  Your records wiped 
                    clean.  No execution upon your 
                      eighteenth birthday.  No review.  
                    No probation.  A second chance.

      The CAMERA IS ON THE MOVE throughout the speech.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS) (CONT D)
                    This is not, however, a waiver 
                    against future crimes.  While 
                      unsupervised, you will adhere to 
                    the laws of the Ark, or you will be 
                    punished under them.  You have one 
                    job, ladies and gentlemen, one 
                      responsibility... Stay alive.  Two 
                    months.  That s how long it will 
                    take to be certain that it s safe 
                    for the rest of us to follow...  

      Just then, a severe jolt opens a storage compartment.  A few 
      rolled maps spill out, floating weightlessly overhead.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS) (CONT D)
                    In the meantime, some of you may be 
                    tempted to strike out on your own.  
                    Don t.  Your drop site has been 
                    chosen carefully. 

      A face in the crowd gets our attention: FINN, 17 and ruggedly 
      handsome, lights up when he sees the floating maps... 

                                  FINN (OVERLAPPING)
                    Oh, hell yes.

      With that, he draws a shiv from his boot and cuts the straps 
      of his harness, floating out of his chair, loving it.   

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    Before the Last War, Mount Weather 
                    was a military base built within a 
                    mountain in order to shelter the 
                      government of the United States...                                                                                      10


      Finn launches himself, soaring exuberantly through the air  
      to the delight of the crowd.

                                    A VOICE FROM THE CROWD (OVERLAPPING)
                    Spacewalk Bandit strikes again!

      A CHEER goes up.  It seems Finn is a bit of a folk hero.   
      TWO MORE BOYS follow his lead, cutting loose, then flying.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    ...No one ever made it there. 
                    According to the archive, it was to 
                    be stocked with enough non-
                      perishables to sustain three 
                    hundred people for up to two years.  
                    Because we could spare you no food, 
                    water, or medicine, you must 
                      immediately locate those supplies. 

      Finn drifts over to Wells, hovering above him...

                                  FINN (OVERLAPPING)
                    Check it out.  Your dad floated me 
                    after all.  

      LAUGHTER, but not from Wells.  From Clarke, a slight smile...

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    I cannot stress this strongly 
                    enough... Mount Weather is life.

                                  CLARKE (OVERLAPPING)
                    You should come down before the 
                    parachute deploys.  All of you.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    It is from there, God willing, that 
                    the next age of man will begin... 
                    with you.   

      Finn turns his attention to Clarke.  Because he ignores her 
      warning, so do the other two now-somersaulting floaters.

                                  FINN (OVERLAPPING)
                    You re the traitor who s been in 
                    solitary for a year.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITORS)
                    Finally, I m sure you re wondering 
                    about those wristbands...  

                                  CLARKE (OVERLAPPING)
                    You re the idiot who wasted a month 
                    of oxygen on an illegal spacewalk.                                                                                      11


      Finn lowers almost to her lap, floating on his back...

                                  FINN (OVERLAPPING)
                    Yeah, but it was fun.  I m Finn.

      Clarke can t believe he s flirting with her now.  As much as 
      we like this guy, Wells doesn t. 

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (ON MONITOR)
                    They are not punishment.  They are 
                      a lifeline.  They are how we will --

      That s when THE PARACHUTE DEPLOYS.  Sudden rapid deceleration 
      ends the fun in an instant. 

      The awful sound of TEARING METAL comes from all around.    
      The video monitors go black, never to be heard from again.  
      The floaters SLAM to the floor with bone-crushing force.    

      The two who followed Finn are killed instantly.  It s only 
      because Finn was near the floor already that he survives.

      Clarke sees that the other two aren t moving.  She wants to 
      help them, fights to get out of her harness, can t.

                                  WELLS
                    Clarke, stop!  The harnesses won t 
                    release until we re on the ground!

                                  CLARKE
                    Finn!  Are you okay?!

      He nods, shaken but unharmed.  She points to the others...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    Check on them!

      Finn is making his way across the unstable floor when an 
      EXPLOSION comes from below.  Another HUGE jolt.  Another 
      collective SCREAM.  Fortunately, Wells did his homework... 

                                  WELLS
                    It s okay!  Just the heat shield 
                    popping off!  Retro-rockets are 
                    next!  Three seconds, two, one.   

      Nothing happens.  Wells is suddenly terrified...

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    ... They should ve fired by now.  

      As he listens, it dawns on him that they re all about to die.                                                                                       12


                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    ... Clarke, there s something I 
                    have to tell you.
                          (suddenly solemn)
                    I m sorry.  All I did was ask my 
                    father a question.  To this day, I 
                    have no idea how or why that got 
                    you and your father arrested.

      She holds his stare, can t believe he s doing this now.

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    Please.  I love you.  I can t die 
                    knowing that you hate me.

      A beat.  She knows he needs absolution.  Too fucking bad.

                                  CLARKE
                    They didn t arrest my father, 
                    Wells.  They executed him...  
                    I do hate you.

      Quiet, devastating truth.  Wells is still searching for a 
      response when THE ROCKETS FINALLY FIRE.  A volcanic ROAR.  

      Again, bodies react to the sudden deceleration.  Flight 
      begins to stabilize.  Of course, as soon as they start to 
      believe they might actually make it, THE WORST OF IT BEGINS.  

      SHAKING unlike any that s come before.  This isn t 
      turbulence, it s something else.  HUNDREDS OF INDIVIDUAL 
      COLLISIONS.  Not yet on the ground.  Possibly trees.  

      A few more terrifying seconds and... SILENCE.  Gradually, it 
      becomes clear that they re actually on the ground.  

                                  GIRL A FEW SEATS OVER
                    ... Listen.  No machine hum.

      Clarke and Wells are struck by it, too.  It s the first time 
      in any of their lives that they ve experienced real silence.  

      Finally, and all at once, the harnesses RELEASE.  

      Clarke starts instantly for the boys lying on the floor as, 
      all around her, people are slowly rising.  

                                  RANDOM VOICE (O.S.)
                    The outer door s below!  Let s go!  

      Nearly to the motionless boys, Clarke hears that and whirls.

                                  CLARKE
                    No!!  We can t just open the door!!                                                                                       13


      INT. LOWER LEVEL - MOMENTS LATER

      Clarke climbs down.  The SIXTY PASSENGERS here are already 
      gathering at the outer door where A YOUNG MAN in a guard s 
      uniform is about to pull the release lever.

                                  CLARKE
                    STOP!!!

      Everything stops.  The young man turns.  At 23, BELLAMY is 
      five years older than even the oldest of the prisoners.    
      His shirt and pants are splattered with blood.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    The air could be toxic! 

      Bellamy watches her force her way through the crowd.  She 
      sees the blood as she arrives, reaches to examine him...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    You re hurt.

      He turns back to the door to avoid her hand...

                                    BELLAMY
                    If the air s toxic, we re all   
                    dead anyway.  

      He grabs the lever again.  Clarke knows he s right, but out 
      of an abundance of caution is about to stop him anyway when a 
      VOICE from behind does it for her:

                                    OCTAVIA (O.S.)
                    Bellamy?

      Bellamy turns to see OCTAVIA, 16, strikingly beautiful, 
      frozen on the ladder.  His face softens at the sight of her.  
      Seeing that it s him, she jumps down and rushes toward him.

                                    BELLAMY
                          (suddenly emotional)
                    ... My God, look how big you are.

                                    OCTAVIA
                          (leaping into his arms)
                    What are you doing here?

                                    BELLAMY
                    Someone had to keep an eye on you.

      It s a nice moment.  Clarke watches with dawning suspicion, 
      finally noticing that Bellamy isn t wearing a wristband...                                                                                      14


                                  CLARKE
                    Where s your wristband?

                                    OCTAVIA
                          (openly hostile)
                    You mind?  I haven t seen my 
                    brother in three years.

      The word  brother  causes a stir.  We ll gather from VARIOUS 
      VOICES IN THE CROWD that on the Ark...

                                    VARIOUS VOICES
                    No one has a brother...  Why do you 
                    think they locked her up?... That s 
                    Octavia Black, the girl they found 
                    hidden in the floor. 

      Octavia s infamy, unlike Finn s, induces pity not admiration.  
      She hates that.  Enraged, she recklessly lunges at the last 
      person to speak.  Bellamy holds her back...

                                    BELLAMY
                    Octavia, no.  Let s give  em 
                    something else to remember you by.

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Like what?!

                                    BELLAMY
                    Like being the first person on the 
                    ground in a hundred years.

      With that, he finally throws the lever.  

      Clarke braces for anything, but as the door swings open, she 
      is utterly unprepared for what she sees:     

      Daylight streams in.  The sight of trees.  A breeze.

      It s the same in all of their faces.  For a moment, no one 
      can move.  They just stand there gazing out in awe at...  

                                  CLARKE
                    ... A forest.

      The crowd surges, but Bellamy stands his ground, blocking the 
      door as he gestures for his sister to lead the way.  

      Octavia hesitates, but just for a moment, before seizing her 
      chance to make history.                                                                                      15


      EXT. THE DROPSHIP - CONTINUOUS

      CLOSE ON THE DOOR as Octavia steps out, looking around in 
      wide-eyed amazement.  Behind her, the others are waiting, 
      mainly because Bellamy won t let anyone follow.  

      As Octavia descends the short staircase, WE WIDEN OUT:    

      The ship has come to rest in the middle of A PRIMORDIAL 
      FOREST.  Fallen trees are everywhere, many still smoldering.  

      Taking in everything, Octavia milks her  one small step for 
      man  moment for several long seconds, before finally 
      thrusting out her arms and BELLOWING:

                                    OCTAVIA
                    WE RE BACK, BITCHES!!

      Neil Armstrong had nothing on Octavia.

      It incites a mad rush from the ship.  

      The STAMPEDE forces Clarke aside as they just keep coming, 
      reveling in the warmth of the sun on their skin.  The scent 
      of real air in their lungs.  The sight of so much green. 

      Already we sense something primal happening here.  A century 
      of pent-up instinct being released at once.  Soon reality 
      will crash down, but, for these few moments the fact that 
      they are young, alive, and on solid ground is combustible.  

      Let the wild rumpus start.  

      Clarke descends the stairs slowly, pausing on the bottom step 
      to nod at the occasion, before finally, at long last, setting 
      foot on the ground.  Something dreamt of all her life passes 
      without fanfare.  There will be time for that later.  

      For now, she can t shake the feeling that something is wrong.  

      Determined to figure it out, she heads for the nearest tree.  

      Passing a BOY using a rolled up map as a sword, she snatches 
      it from him, puts it between her teeth, and starts to climb. 

      WE CLIMB WITH HER, rising above the celebration, LAUGHTER and 
      SHOUTS OF JOY receding as she pulls herself higher, finally 
      stopping as the leaves thin and the view steals her breath:

      DENSELY FORESTED, MIST-SHROUDED MOUNTAINS as far as the eye 
      can see.  The stuff of fairy tales and nightmares.  

      Finding a perch, she unrolls the map and holds it out, trying 
      to orient it to the various surrounding peaks when she hears:                                                                                      16


                                  FINN (O.S.)
                    Why so serious, Princess?

      Surprised she s not alone, she looks over, sees Finn already 
      perched in a neighboring tree.

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    It s not like we died in a fiery 
                      explosion.

      She looks back out, back to the map...

                                  CLARKE
                    Tell that to the two boys who 
                    followed you out of their seats.

      It strikes Finn hard, making the point: don t call her 
      princess.  She points to a distant mountain top...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    You see that peak over there?  

                                  FINN
                    Yeah.

                                  CLARKE
                    Mount Weather.  There s a radiation 
                    soaked forest between us and our 
                    next meal. 

      Having gotten what she came for, she re-rolls the map.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    They dropped us on the wrong 
                    goddamn mountain.

      Finn looks back out.  Shit.  A good view spoiled by the 
      realization that they are well and truly fucked.   

 

                                        END ACT ONE                                                                                      17


                                            ACT TWO


      EXT. SPACE - DAY

      The beautiful mess that is the Ark drifts in pure silence two 
      hundred and fifty-seven miles above the Earth.


      INT. THE ARK - THE GOVERNMENT AND SCIENCE STATION - DAY

      An agitated CROWD has gathered in the atrium that connects     
      GO-SCI to the rest of the Ark through a system of tubes.

      A good sample of the populace, they are hard-working and hard- 
      edged.  Life in space is not easy and it shows on every face.

      A GUARD UNIT backs up the Ark s Chief Communications Officer, 
      CALLIE CARTWIG, 42; everyone calls her  Cece.    This is the 
      part of her job that she hates.  The lying part.

                                  CECE
                    Folks, as I said, at this time,    
                    we can t confirm or deny anything. 

                                    VARIOUS VOICES
                    I saw a ship launch...Not more than 
                    20 minutes ago...Who was on it?...  
                    Was it the prisoners?...They going 
                    to Earth?...Has something changed? 

      The guards are clearly about to move in when a WOMAN in the 
      crowd WHISTLES loudly, bringing instant quiet.

      Like many here, she s come from work, in her case as a 
      mechanic.  Unlike most, RAVEN, 35, is in total control... 

                                  RAVEN
                    Cool it.  Our elected leaders  
                    would never send our kids to die 
                    without telling us.  Isn t that 
                    right, ma am?

      Cece holds her stare, offering her best bullshit smile. 


      INT. EARTH MONITORING STATION - MINUTES LATER

      Cece strides into a jury-rigged control room.  Wires are 
      showing everywhere.  The mood here is dark, verging on panic.

      As she heads for the HIGH-LEVEL GROUP at the center of the 
      technological swirl, her eyes take ours to THE BIG BOARD:                                                                                      18


      A monitor wall split into a grid of a hundred separate feeds, 
      one for each wristband.  Vital signs and MUG SHOTS are there.  

      Cece stops beside the man who is clearly in charge: 

      KANE, 42, is handsome, but there s a coldness about him even 
      at first glance.  He d call it professionalism.  At the 
      moment, he s being briefed by a TECH as to why there was a... 

                                    COMMUNICATIONS TECH 
                    Total system failure!  That s what 
                    we re looking at here.  We know 
                    they were off course when we lost 
                      contact... There s no way they 
                    landed at Mount Weather.

      That hits hard, darkening every expression.

                                    COMMUNICATIONS TECH (CONT D)
                    Other than telemetry from the 
                      wristbands, we got nothing.  No 
                    audio.  No video.  No computer 
                    link.  Right now, we have to assume 
                    they can t access the system from 
                    the ground either.  That means 
                      everything we programmed in to help 
                    them is gone.  Other than a few old 
                    maps, they re on their own.  

      Kane is about to respond when he sees Cece at his side...

                                  KANE
                    Cece, we re a little busy.

                                  CECE
                    Rumors are spreading... sir.  Most 
                    of them true.  We have to at least 
                    tell the families something.

                                  KANE
                    Fine.  Take this down... We regret 
                    to inform you that your delinquent 
                    sons and daughters who will no 
                    longer be consuming resources they 
                    don t deserve may or may not be 
                    dying in a radioactive haze on the 
                    ground.  How s that?

                                  CECE 
                    Can t confirm or deny, it is.

      With that, she heads for the board where we now see Abby 
      monitoring wristband signals with her TEAM OF APPRENTICES.  
      It s clear at once that Cece and Abby are dear friends...                                                                                      19


                                  CECE (CONT D)
                    Hey, darlin ... How s Clarke doing?

                                  ABBY
                    Third row, second square down.  
                    Vital signs are strong.  Blood 
                    sugar is low.  She hasn t eaten.

      We see Clarke s defiant mug shot.  Emotion threatens, but as 
      Kane strides up to address the medical team, she buries it.

                                  KANE
                    Okay.  Here it is:  Communication 
                    is down.  Everything.  Unless one 
                    of the prisoners can put it back 
                    together on their end, it s gonna 
                    stay that way.  Which means, 
                      unfortunately, we re still blind to 
                      conditions on the ground.  But... 
                    thanks to Abby s wristbands, at 
                    least we ll know how those 
                      conditions affect the human body.  
                    That s more than we ve had for a 
                    hundred years.  So nice work...  
                    Now what are they telling us?

      His lack of emotion bothers Abby, but she stays focused.

                                  ABBY
                    Two dead kids.  The dark tiles.

      Kane sees now that, indeed, two of the tiles on the big board     
      are dark.  We recognize the mug shots of the dead floaters.

                                  KANE
                    At least it s not Clarke or Wells.

                                  CECE
                    Where is the Chancellor anyway?  

                                  ABBY
                    He ll be here... Dr. Jackson, 
                    please share your theory with 
                      Councillor Kane.

      JACKSON, 27, Abby s chief apprentice, assumes the floor...

                                    JACKSON
                    Of course.  Granted, they ve only 
                    been on the ground seven minutes, 
                    but as of now, we believe that the 
                      fatalities are due to the landing, 
                    not to radiation levels.                                                                                      20


                                  ABBY
                    Both boys died at the same time we 
                    lost contact with the dropship.

                                  KANE
                    Rough landing?  That s your theory?

                                  ABBY
                    The dots connect. 

                                  KANE
                    Would you agree that if it was 
                      radiation, we d see the number of 
                      fatalities climb fairly quickly 
                    now?  Because I m noticing quite a 
                    lot of red on your board, Doctor.

      We notice it now, too:  Many of the tiles are lined in red.  

                                  ABBY
                    Spiking vital signs.  Two 
                      possibilities.  One... injuries 
                    sustained during landing.  

                                  KANE
                    And the other?

                                  ABBY
                    They re excited to be there.

      Kane is concerned about wishful thinking, but before he can 
      say so, a phone TRILLS on the console.  Abby answers...

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    This is Doctor Walters.
                          (instantly deadly serious)
                    On my way.
                          (hanging up; then)
                    Jackson, put the word out.  We need 
                    blood.  A-neg.  A lot of it.  Then 
                    get your ass to the OR.

                                  CECE
                    Abby?  What is it?

                                  ABBY
                    The Chancellor s been shot.  


      EXT. EARTH - THE LANDING SITE - DAY

      The Hundred have spread out amid the trees all around the 
      incongruously located ship.                                                                                        21


      For the most part, girls and boys are separate.  Athletes 
      tend to hang together.  Delinquents, too.  The more things 
      change... and all that.

      But there s a more subtle segregation (that we ll explore in 
      series), based on which of the Ark s stations a person comes 
      from.  Station rivalries will make cooperation difficult, 
      friendships rare, and romances potentially dangerous.

      For now, the ongoing revelry blurs these fault-lines.     
      It s clear at once that bad news has yet to arrive.    

      Then Wells strides from the ship.  He spots Clarke kneeling 
      over the map beside the stairs and drops down beside her...  

                                  WELLS
                    We got problems.

      She doesn t look at him, still can t believe he s here.  

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    The communication system is dead.  
                    I went to the roof.  A dozen panels 
                    are missing.  Heat fried the wires.  

                                  CLARKE
                          (pushing past it)
                    Right now all that matters is 
                    getting to Mount Weather. 

      Using the peaks she observed earlier in the tree above,    
      she draws lines, tapping the spot where they intersect.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    This is us.
                          (tapping Mount Weather)
                    This is where we need to be if we 
                    wanna survive.

                                  WELLS
                    Where d you learn to do that?

      She looks over heavily.  He knows the answer.  Guilt returns.

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    Your father.

                                  CLARKE
                          (getting in his face)
                    Let s get something straight, okay?  
                    What I said on the way down, I 
                    meant.  But you re here--God knows 
                    why--so we re gonna have to work 
                    together.  That does not mean --                                                                                      22


                                  WELLS
                    I chopped down the Last Tree.

      It stops her cold.  She s dumbfounded...

                                  CLARKE
                    The willow?  I loved that tree.

                                  WELLS
                    Me, too.  We had our first kiss 
                    under it... But I needed to do  
                    something that would get me on   
                    the dropship. 

                                  CLARKE
                    Good for you, Wells.  Now I hate 
                    you and think you re a dick. 

      Just then, a skinny 16-year-old boy steps up beside Clarke.  
      JASPER is utterly nonthreatening and a total charmer...

                                  JASPER
                    Cool, a map.  They got a bar in 
                    this town?  I ll buy yah a beer.

      Clarke smiles.  Wells spins Jasper around, pushing him away.

                                  WELLS
                    You mind?  

      ANOTHER BOY sees this and strides up.  This one is 
        threatening.  So is the posse of DELINQUENTS behind him.  

                                  BOY
                    Hey!  Hands off!  He s with us!

                                  WELLS
                    Relax.  We re just trying to figure 
                    out where we are.

      Bellamy and Octavia wander up on the other side...

                                    BELLAMY 
                    We re on the ground.  That s not 
                    good enough for you?

                                  WELLS
                    We need to find Mount Weather.
                          (to the gathering crowd)
                    You heard my father s message.  
                    That has to be our first priority.

      Gasoline meet fire.                                                                                        23


                                    OCTAVIA
                    Screw your father!  You think 
                    you re in charge here?  You and 
                    your little princess?

                                  WELLS
                    Don t call her princess.

      Of course, that prompts calls of PRINCESS from all around.  
      Clarke shakes her head slightly, then...

                                  CLARKE
                    You think we care who s in charge? 
                    We need to find Mount Weather.   
                    Not because the Chancellor said so, 
                    but because the longer we wait, the 
                    hungrier we ll get, the harder 
                    it ll be.  How long do you think 
                    we ll last out here without those 
                    supplies? 

      It cuts through.  Some people are just natural-born leaders.  

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    We re looking at a 20 mile trek.  
                    If we wanna make it before dark,  
                    we need to leave... now.  

                                    BELLAMY
                    I got a better idea... You two go.  
                    Find it for us.  Let the privileged 
                    do the hard work for a change.

      A CHEER goes up.  Bellamy is surprised by it, likes the 
      feeling.  Clarke regards him warily.  Wells plows ahead...

                                  WELLS
                    You re not listening.  We all need 
                    to go. 

      Just then, a particularly rough boy, JOHN, 17, steps up, 
      shoving Wells in the back.

                                  JOHN
                    Look, everybody.  It s the 
                      Chancellor of Earth.

      LAUGHTER from the crowd.  Wells rounds...

                                  WELLS
                    You think that s funny?

      Without blinking, John executes a vicious leg sweep,  
      throwing Wells to the ground.                                                                                      24


                                  JOHN
                    No... but that is.

      Wells gets back to his feet, badly favoring one leg, but 
      ready to fight.  

      The crowd circles, relishing the chance to watch the 
        Chancellor s son get the shit beat out of him.

      Clarke wants to step in, but before she can, Finn drops from 
      the trees above, riding a bending branch to the ground,  
      touching down right between the two combatants.    

      His presence has an instant effect.  The crowd is star-
      struck, wowed by the acrobatic entrance...

                                  JOHN (CONT D)
                    Whoa.  Sweet.

                                  FINN
                    Thanks.  Hold this.

      He hands the branch to John.  The moment the smaller boy has 
      a hold, Finn lets go.  The recoil sends John flying.

      The crowd ROARS with delight.  John s friends break his fall.  

      And, just like that, the tension is gone.

      Clarke is impressed, shooting Finn an appreciative glance,    
      as Octavia steps between them...

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Hey, Spacewalker... Rescue me next?

      Finn smiles, but says nothing as a GROUP OF FRIENDS from his 
      home station surround to greet him warmly.  

      WE HOLD ON OCTAVIA AND BELLAMY as she clocks her brother s 
      obvious disapproval...

                                    OCTAVIA (CONT D)
                    What?  He s cute.

                                    BELLAMY
                    He s a criminal.  

                                    OCTAVIA
                    They re all criminals.  

      Bellamy takes her arm, guides her aside, lowers his voice...

                                    BELLAMY
                    I came down here to protect you.                                                                                      25


                                    OCTAVIA
                    I don t need protecting!  I ve been 
                    locked up, one way or another,   
                    all my life.  I am done following 
                    orders.  I need to have fun, Bell.  
                    I need to do something crazy just 
                    because I can.  And no one, 
                    including you, is gonna stop me.

      Bellamy understands, but, at the moment, he has bigger 
      problems than his sister s need for excitement...

                                    BELLAMY
                    I can t stay with them, O.

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Now what are you talking about?

                                    BELLAMY
                    I did something, okay?  To get on 
                    the dropship.  Something they ll 
                    kill me for when they come down.  
                          (before she can ask)
                    I can t tell you what it is yet, 
                    but you have to trust me.  You do 
                    still trust me, don t you?

      She hesitates, but nods.  He smiles slightly, then...

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    Good.  Then let s go.  You can help 
                    me convince the guys from our 
                    station to come with us.

      Thinking it s settled, he walks off.  Octavia knows she 
      should follow, but looks back to Finn instead.

      ON FINN -- stepping to Clarke as she finishes examining  
      Wells  ankle, her medical training in evidence...  

                                  FINN
                    When do we leave?

      Wells was about to thank him, doesn t.  Takes Clarke a moment 
      to realize he s volunteering for the trek to Mount Weather...  

                                  CLARKE
                    Right now.  

      She stands.  Wells looks at her, his expression darkening.                                                                                      26


                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    We ll be back tomorrow with food.  
                    Once the others know the supplies 
                    are still there, they ll follow.

                                  WELLS
                    How are two of you gonna carry 
                    enough food for a hundred? 

      Without a word, Finn collars Jasper and ANOTHER BOY from   
      the crowd.  We ll introduce them properly in the next act.  
      For now, just know they re thrilled to get Finn s attention.

                                  FINN
                    Four of us.  Can we go now?

      That s when Octavia sashays toward them...

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Sounds like a party.  Make it five. 

      Bellamy hurries behind her, catching her arm...

                                    BELLAMY
                    What the hell are you doing?!  

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Going for a walk!

      She tears her arm away.  Before Bellamy can figure out how to 
      avoid a scene, Clarke makes one of her own, grabbing Finn s 
      wristband, turning it to reveal what appear to be saw marks.

                                  CLARKE
                    Were you trying to take this off?

                                  FINN
                    Yeah.  So?

                                  CLARKE
                    So this wristband transmits your 
                    vital signs to the Ark.  Take it 
                    off and they ll think you re dead.  

                                  FINN
                    Should I care? 

                                  CLARKE
                    I don t know.  You want the people 
                    you love to think you re dead?

      It stops Finn.  Clearly, he doesn t.                                                                                            27


                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    You want them to follow you down 
                    here in two months?  Because they 
                    won t if they think we re dying. 

      Bellamy s reaction to this warrants A CLOSE UP:  It s the 
      look of someone being struck by a powerful idea.  

      Finn nods, understanding.  Clarke drops his arm...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    Okay.  Then move out.

      Finn walks off.  His two recruits follow.  Octavia wants to, 
      but looks first to Bellamy.  He whispers conspiratorially...

                                    BELLAMY
                    If they think we re dying, they 
                    won t follow us down.

      Octavia doesn t understand, cares even less.  He has no 
      choice but to let her...

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    Go.  I ve got work to do.

      A kiss on his cheek and she hurries after the others.  

      Finally, Clarke looks back to Wells...

                                  CLARKE
                    Find a walking stick and look    
                    for water.  If they think they need 
                    you, maybe they ll let you live.

      With that, she walks off, too.  WE GO WITH HER as Octavia 
      slows to let her catch up, looking over threateningly...

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Before you get any ideas...   
                    Finn s mine.

      Clarke is taken aback by her hostility, but recovers fast...

                                  CLARKE
                    Before you get any ideas...        
                    I don t care.  

      As they walk out of frame, we HOLD ON BELLAMY AND WELLS,  
      each watching people they love get swallowed by the forest.  

      Bellamy looks away first, turning his attention to the 
      wristbands all around him, a sly smile telling us a plan is 
      taking shape, as Wells watches him with deepening suspicion.                                                                                      28


      INT. THE ARK - COUNCIL CHAMBER - DAY

      Kane sits at the head of a huge table, Earth visible through 
      a window behind him.  The NAMEPLATE tells us he s trying the 
        Chancellor s chair on for size, liking the way it feels when 
      he hears A DOOR OPEN, quickly stands and turns to the window.

      If the uniformed COMMANDER OF THE GUARD knows what Kane was 
      doing, he doesn t let on.  His devotion to Kane is clear... 

                                  COMMANDER OF THE GUARD
                    Excuse me, sir, you asked to be 
                      interrupted if there was news. 

      Kane doesn t turn.  In his face, we see that he thinks this 
      is the moment he becomes Chancellor.  Then he hears: 

                                  COMMANDER OF THE GUARD (CONT D)
                    The Chancellor is still in surgery, 
                    but we ve ID d the shooter.

      Takes Kane a moment to push back disappointment.  By the time 
      he turns, the Commander has summoned up an image on the huge 
      touch screen monitor that doubles as the council table:

      BELLAMY S FACE ON A SANITATION CREW ID CARD. 

                                  COMMANDER OF THE GUARD (CONT D)
                    Bellamy Black is the only person on 
                    the Ark unaccounted for.

                                  KANE
                    Who is he?

                                  COMMANDER OF THE GUARD
                    He s no one.  A janitor.  We re 
                    still working up a profile, but his 
                    motive for going to Earth is clear.

      He brings up the MUG SHOTS of the prisoners alongside 
      Bellamy, selecting OCTAVIA S.  So young.  So afraid.  Nothing 
      like the vivacious girl we re getting to know on the ground. 

                                  KANE
                    Sister.  I remember them.  Their 
                    mother kept her hidden for almost 
                    thirteen years.  Nearly a record. 

      Something in the Commander s expression stops Kane...

                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    What is it, Commander Shumway?

      The Commander hesitates.                                                                                      29


                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    Spit it out.

                                  COMMANDER SHUMWAY
                    We could start now.  As Chancellor 
                    Pro Tempore, you can give the order 
                    to begin reducing the population.  

      It hangs there.  Kane is clearly tempted.  Then...

                                  KANE
                    Not yet.  The Chancellor s Hail 
                    Mary mission to Earth is failing.  
                    Once it s clear the ground still 
                    isn t an option, the council will 
                    get in line.  
                          (looking back down to 
                            Bellamy s picture)
                    In the meantime, I d like to know 
                    who helped this janitor get on that 
                    dropship.  Because he sure as hell 
                    didn t do it by himself.

      The Commander says nothing, but clearly agrees.

                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    It seems we have a traitor in our 
                    midst, Commander... 
                          (looking to the mug shots)
                    And the Hundred have an assassin  
                    in theirs.



                                        END ACT TWO                                                                                      30


                                          ACT THREE


      EXT. EARTH - THE ENDLESS WOODS - DAY

      Several hours into the trek.  The group has fanned out amid 
      the trees.  Sunlight dapples.  Wildflowers are everywhere.  

      Clarke has assumed the lead and is setting a fast pace, 
        appreciating none of it.

      Behind her, Octavia, Finn, and his two recruits all wish that 
      she would slow down to let them enjoy the scenery.  

      JASPER and MONTY, both 15, are, on the surface, the furthest 
      thing from delinquents.  They are clearly very intelligent 
      and, it must be said, incredibly uncool.  The fact that 
      they re studying Finn to remedy this will become clear.

      As we arrive, Finn stops to pick a flower and slip it into 
      Octavia s hair.  She d jump him here and now if he d let her.  

      Jasper and Monty see this and exchange a glance...

                                  JASPER
                    That, my friend, is game.

                                  MONTY
                    That, my friend, is poison sumac.

                                    OCTAVIA
                          (swatting away the flower)
                    Jesus, Finn!  Thank you.

                                  MONTY
                    Don t worry.  The flowers aren t 
                      poisonous.  They re medicinal.  
                    Calming actually.

      He pops one in his mouth.  Finn and Octavia are curious.

                                  JASPER
                    His family grows all the 
                      pharmaceuticals.

                                  CLARKE
                          (abruptly turning around)
                    Hey!  Try to keep up.

                                  FINN
                    Come on, Clarke, look around you.  
                    How do you block all this out?

      Clarke scratches an X into a tree to mark their path, then...                                                                                      31


                                  CLARKE
                    It s simple.  I wonder: why haven t 
                    we seen any animals?  Hm.  Maybe 
                    it s because there are none.   
                    Maybe we ve already been exposed  
                    to enough radiation to kill us...  
                    Sure is pretty, though.

      With that, she strides onward.  The others follow, their buzz 
        sufficiently killed.  

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Someone should slip her some  
                    poison sumac.

      Jasper LAUGHS a bit too loudly.  Monty smacks him.  

                                  FINN
                    I gotta know what you two did to 
                    get busted.   

                                  MONTY
                          (after a beat)
                    Sumac s not the only herb in the 
                    garden, if you know what I mean.

                                  JASPER
                          (meaning Monty)
                    Someone forgot to replace what    
                    we took.

                                  MONTY
                    Someone s apologized like a 
                    thousand times.

                                  JASPER
                    How  bout you Octavia?  What d they 
                    get you for?

      Looks for a moment like she isn t going to respond, then...

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Being born.

      With that, she speeds up to catch Clarke. 

                                  MONTY
                    That is so not game.

      Before Jasper can respond, they notice that Clarke has 
      stopped and is holding out a hand for them to do the same.  

      Octavia sees what Clarke sees and gestures the boys excitedly 
      closer.  They creep up slowly.  Clarke points.                                                                                        32


      WE SEE IT AS THEY DO:  A grazing deer.  Partially obscured by 
      brush, it s the first sign of life other than insects and 
      plants they ve seen and it has a profound effect on them all. 

                                  FINN
                    You were saying?

                                  MONTY
                    Can we eat it?

      They all look at him in disgust.

                                  MONTY (CONT D)
                    Kidding.

      Finn wants a better view, gestures for silence, pads closer.  

      One step and the animal looks up, revealing, to their horror, 
      that IT HAS TWO HEADS.  One is hideously deformed.    

        A collective GASP and the mutant deer bolts.


      EXT. THE LANDING SITE - DAY

      Leaning on a walking stick, Wells limps into camp, a pile of 
      kindling under one arm.  The mood here has dimmed a bit.  
      People are hungry, thirsty.  Still they play, flirt, fight.  

      TWO KIDS, covered in mud, approach Wells...  

                                  ONE OF THE KIDS
                    We finished burying the bodies.  
                    You find any water yet?

      Wells drops the sticks in a growing pile, then...

                                  WELLS
                    Not yet.  I m going out again if 
                    you wanna join. 

      They nod.  Wells is about to lead them back out when he sees 
      a message scratched in the dirt.  His helpers see it, too:

                                  FIRST SON/FIRST TO DYE

      It s unsettling to say the least, but Wells swallows it and 
      looks around to see who did it.  Doesn t take long.  

      The boy who already assaulted him watches from nearby with 
      another dangerous-looking lad, conveniently also named JOHN. 

      Wells limps toward them, knows not to show fear...                                                                                      33


                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    You spelled die wrong.  

                                  JOHN #1
                    You sure you wanna do this?        
                    I don t see Finn or your daddy    
                    in any of these trees.

                                  WELLS
                    Actually, I m sure I don t wanna do 
                    this.  What I wanna do is find 
                    water and make a fire because I m 
                    thirsty and it s gonna be dark 
                    soon... We could use some help.  

      The Johns feel the eyes of the group.  John #1 draws a shiv 
      and steps to Wells with unmistakable menace.

      Wells stands his ground, but is clearly afraid.  This is not 
      a situation he s faced before.  Not just schoolyard bullies.  

                                  JOHN #1
                          (a menacing whisper)
                    My dad begged for mercy in the 
                    airlock when your dad floated him.

      Wells goes pale.  

                                    BELLAMY (O.S.)
                    What s the problem here?  

      They see him approaching.  The uniform prompts an instinctive 
      backing down.  The Johns melt into the crowd.  Wells is still 
      suspicious of Bellamy, but appreciative nonetheless...

                                  WELLS
                    Thanks. 

      He holds out a hand, but Bellamy doesn t take it...

                                    BELLAMY
                    I meant what s your problem?

      The Johns drift back.  Wells summons courage...

                                  WELLS
                    My problem s the same as yours.  
                          (looking to the group)
                    The same as all of ours.  The more 
                    of us who look for water, the more 
                    likely we are to find it. 

      He starts to walk off, but Bellamy snatches his walking 
      stick.  Gritting his teeth against the pain, he keeps going.                                                                                      34


      The effort draws a few more people to his side.  

      ON BELLAMY -- Watching Wells go as the Johns return...

                                  JOHN #1
                    You re not really a member of the 
                    Guard, are you?

                                    BELLAMY
                    No.  But the real Guard will be 
                    here soon... unless we stop it.

      It gets their attention.

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    You don t actually believe they re 
                    gonna forgive your crimes?

      They did believe it.

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    Even if they do.  Then what?  Guys 
                    like you, you gonna be model 
                    citizens now?  Get jobs?  If you re 
                    lucky, maybe pick up their trash. 

                                  JOHN #2
                    You got a point?

                                    BELLAMY
                    No... I got a question.  They 
                    locked you up.  Dumped you down 
                    here like lab rats to die.  So why 
                    are you helping them? 

                                  JOHN #1
                    The hell we are.

                                    BELLAMY
                    You re wearing those bracelets, 
                    aren t you?  Right now, those 
                    things are telling them whether or 
                    not it s safe to follow us down.

                                  JOHN #2
                    You said we could stop it.  How? 

      Bellamy pauses, realizes he s not recruiting rocket 
      scientists here, manages a smile...

                                    BELLAMY
                    Take  em off.  The Ark will think 
                    you re dead.  That it s not safe to 
                    follow... You follow?                                                                                        35


      It takes a moment, but they nod.

                                  JOHN #1
                    And if we do?  What s in it for us?

                                    BELLAMY
                    Someone s gotta help me run things.

      Two Johns.  Two smiles.


      INT. THE ARK - GO-SCI STATION - OPERATING ROOM - DAY

      Abby has been operating on the Chancellor for hours.  
      Jackson, her chief apprentice, assists.  Two NURSES.

      Medical supplies, we are about to realize, like everything on 
      the Ark, are severely rationed.  

      Moments after we arrive, the patient starts to wake up mid-
      surgery.  He jerks from the pain of it.  Vital signs dive.

                                  ABBY
                    Increase anesthesia.

      The nurse whose job it is hesitates.  Abby looks over...

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Your Chancellor is going into 
                    shock.  Now do it!

                                    JACKSON
                    Abby, we re way over the line.  
                    According to the law, we have to --

                                  ABBY
                    I ll do it myself.  Let  em come 
                    after me.

      Jackson turns into her path, stopping her, whispering...

                                    JACKSON
                    Boss, come on.  You really gonna 
                    risk your life to save the man who 
                    ordered your husband s execution?

      Without hesitating, she turns the knob, releasing the gas.  
      The Chancellor calms instantly.  Vitals stabilize. 


      INT. GO-SCI STATION - CORRIDOR - DAY

      Just out of surgery, Abby strides heatedly down a long 
      connector tube.  Cece rushes to catch up...                                                                                      36


                                  CECE
                    Ab, slow down.  How is he?

                                  ABBY
                    Ask me again if he makes it  
                    through the night.

      Before Cece can respond, a MAINTENANCE WORKER on a ladder 
      suddenly drops down into their path.  

      It s Raven, Finn s mother as it turns out, and it s clear at 
      once that Cece, not work, is the real reason she s here...

                                  RAVEN
                    Where the hell s my son?

      Despite Raven s strong facade, the wounded mother in Abby  
      senses a kindred spirit.  Cece checks her ID badge, then...

                                  CECE
                    Let s see your work order, Raven.  

      Clearly, she doesn t have one.  Cece starts for a nearby 
      intercom to report it, but Abby stops her...

                                  ABBY
                    It s okay.

      The kindness gets Raven s attention.  She looks at Abby for 
      the first time, recognizing her at once...

                                  RAVEN
                    Your kid s locked up, too.

      Abby s taken aback.  Raven plows right through...

                                  RAVEN (CONT D)
                    My son, Finn Hawthorne, missed 
                    message day today for the first 
                    time in two years.  Same day folks 
                    saw a ship leave.  One with seating 
                    for a hundred.  I got friends who 
                    worked on it.  A hundred.  Same as 
                    the number of cells in the Sky Box.  
                    You see where I m going with this? 

                                  CECE
                    Come on, Abby.  We have to go.

      But before she can lead Abby past, Raven grabs Abby s arm...

                                  RAVEN
                    ... Wait.                                                                                        37


      Her facade cracks.  Her desperation shows.  She hates that.

                                  RAVEN (CONT D)
                    I may not be important, but my son 
                    means as much to me as your 
                    daughter does to you.  Please... 
                    tell me where my child is.

      Abby holds her stare, trying to decide what to do.  


      INT. EARTH MONITORING STATION - MOMENTS LATER

      Abby leads Raven into the monitoring station.  Less chaotic 
      than before.  They have entered watch and wait mode.  

      It s clear from the shock in Raven s face that Abby brought 
      her up to speed on the walk over.

      The moment they enter, Abby s eyes go to the big board,  
      where TWO MORE DARK SQUARES can now be seen.  Two more dead 
      kids.  She tries to hide concern from Raven, but it s clear.

                                  ABBY
                    Nothing leaves this room.     
                    Excuse me for one --

                                  RAVEN
                    You said two dead.  I count four.

                                  ABBY
                    Who else did we lose?

      An apprentice punches buttons, isolating the wristband feeds 
      and accompanying mug shots of THE TWO JOHNS. 

                                  APPRENTICE
                    Murphy and Mbege.  Both named John.   

      Raven is relieved.  She turns to the board, wanders closer, 
      searching for Finn s face as Abby joins her team.

                                  APPRENTICE (CONT D)
                    Neither was injured during landing.  

                                    JACKSON
                    I concur.  Something else killed 
                    these two.  One second they were 
                    fine, the next... bang.  

                                  ABBY
                    It wasn t radiation.                                                                                      38


                                    JACKSON
                    How can you be sure?

                                  ABBY
                    Because one-second-fine, the-next-
                    bang is not how exposure to 
                    radiation presents.  You know that.

                                    JACKSON
                    It could if there was enough of it.

                                  ABBY
                    If there was enough of it, they 
                    would all be dead!  

      It echoes.  She wishes she could take it back.  

      Raven looks over, meeting her stare from across the room.   
      No one else here knows how it feels.

      ON RAVEN -- as she turns back to the board and we see that 
      she s found Finn, HIS FACE now right in front of her.  Guy 
      can t even take a bad mug shot.  In it, he is without fear.

      Something primal stirs within her.  This is not the look of a 
      woman who will stop at knowing the truth about her son.  It s 
      the look of a mother who will stop at nothing to save him.


      EXT. EARTH - THE ENDLESS WOODS - DUSK

      ON FINN -- at the back of the pack now.  Daylight is fading.  

      Octavia has the lead, the sway of her body keeping Jasper and 
      Monty s minds off hunger, thirst, and exhaustion.  Finn, the 
      one person she wants to notice, doesn t...

                                  FINN
                    You know what I d like to know?  
                    Why send us down today, after 
                      ninety-seven years?  What changed?

                                    OCTAVIA
                    Who cares?  I m just glad they did.  
                    I woke up rotting in a cell.  Now 
                    I m spinning in a forest.

      She spins around a tree.  Jasper beams, but her eyes are on 
      Finn, who, beginning to piss her off, still doesn t notice.

                                  MONTY
                    Maybe they found something on a 
                      satellite.  You know, like an old 
                    weather satellite or --                                                                                      39


                                  CLARKE
                    It wasn t a satellite.

      The way she said it gets attention.  She keeps her secret for 
      another moment, then...

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    The Ark is dying.  

      Although it lands hard, no one grasps the magnitude yet.  
      Because Clarke keeps walking, they all do.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    At the current population level 
                    there s roughly three months left 
                    of life support, maybe four now 
                    that we re gone.

                                  FINN
                    That s the secret they locked you 
                    up to keep?  Why they kept you in 
                    solitary?  Floated your old man?

      Emotion threatens, but she keeps it down, nods...

                                  CLARKE
                    My father was the engineer who 
                      discovered the flaw.  He thought 
                    the people deserved to know.  The 
                    council disagreed... My mother 
                      disagreed.  They were worried it 
                    would cause a panic.  My dad and I 
                    decided to go public anyway.  

                                  JASPER
                    They found out before you could?

      Another nod.  Back in control...

                                  CLARKE
                    Anyway, that s why today.  That s 
                    why it was worth the risk.  Even if 
                    we all die, at least they bought 
                      themselves more time.  

                                  MONTY
                          (as it hits him)
                    They re gonna kill more people, 
                    aren t they?  If Earth still isn t 
                    safe, they have to.

      Clarke nods soberly.  Finn, Jasper, and Monty are gutted by 
      what this means for their loved ones.  Octavia doesn t care.                                                                                      40


                                    OCTAVIA
                    Good.  After what they did to me,  
                    I say let  em all die.   

                                  JASPER
                    You don t mean that.

      Octavia doesn t respond, her eyes suddenly on something in 
      front of them.  The others don t notice yet.

                                  FINN
                    We have to warn them.  

      Clarke looks over, deeply affected by that.

                                  CLARKE
                    That s what my father said.

      The fact that he reminds her of her father, who she loved 
      more than anyone in the world, untethers her.  

      Because of that, she runs smack into Jasper, who has stopped 
      dead to watch OCTAVIA SUDDENLY PEEL OFF HER CLOTHES... 

                                  JASPER
                    Damn, I love Earth.

      ON OCTAVIA -- She knows they re watching.  Loves that 
      attention is back on her where it belongs.    

      The others are IN THE SHOT behind her.  Finn s expression is 
      more controlled than the other two boys, but only just.   

                                  CLARKE
                    Octavia, what the hell are you --

      That s when Octavia, down to just her underwear, takes a step 
      forward and SUDDENLY PLUNGES OUT OF VIEW.  

      A moment of confusion for the others ends with a SPLASH!  
      Fair to say it s the most amazing sound they ve ever heard. 

      Instantly, they rush forward, stopping on the rim of A NARROW 
      GORGE cut through the woods by A RIVER fifteen feet below.

      They get there in time to see Octavia rise up, enraptured as 
      she breaks the surface.  When you ve survived on drops of 
      water a day your entire life, swimming is transcendent.

                                  MONTY
                    Octavia, can you swim?!

                                    OCTAVIA
                    No... but I can stand.                                                                                      41


      With that, she rises like a sea goddess from the chest-high 
      water.  In seconds, the boys are stripping down to join her.  
      Only Clarke hesitates.  

                                  FINN
                    Clarke, take your damn clothes off.

      She ignores him, moving to the edge, pulling out the map...

                                  CLARKE 
                    There s no river on the map.   
                    We re going the wrong way.

      Finn steps up behind her, pointing across the river...

                                  FINN
                    No, we re not.

      We see it as Clarke does:  A man-made structure, the wreckage 
      of one anyway, above the trees on the horizon.  Still too far 
      away to be sure, but possibly an old guard tower.  

                                  CLARKE
                    ... Mount Weather.

      She spins excitedly, her smile melting at the sight of Finn s 
      rather amazing physique.  She peels off her shirt, too.  

      At that moment, Jasper, about to jump, suddenly freezes,  
      gripped by fear...

                                  JASPER
                    ... Octavia, get outta the water!!

      All eyes shoot to the river where A LONG DARK SHADOW is 
      rocketing toward Octavia.  

      We won t get a good look here.  Could be a croc.  Or a giant 
      snake.  Of course, it s possible that a hundred years 
      marinating in radiation has created something else entirely.

      Whatever it is, it s fast, it s aggressive, and it s hungry.

      Before Octavia can react, the creature strikes, violently 
      taking her under and dragging her away.



                                        END ACT THREE                                                                                      42


                                          ACT FOUR


      EXT. THE RIVER - DUSK

      Just where we left them.  

      The UNSEEN beast drags Octavia away.  Fighting wildly, she 
      breaks the surface SCREAMING, before being sucked back down.

      Clarke, Finn, Monty, and Jasper race along the river s edge, 
      15 feet above, desperate to keep her in sight.  

                                  MONTY
                    ... What the hell is it?!

      Before anyone can venture a guess, Finn makes a decision.  
      He s going in after her.  Clarke grabs his arm...

                                  CLARKE
                    Finn, no!  What are you gonna do?!

                                  FINN
                    Try not to get eaten.

      With that, he jumps.  The moment he SPLASHES down, the shadow 
      releases Octavia and whips around to check out the threat.

                                  JASPER
                    Octavia, now!!  Get to the edge!!

                                  CLARKE
                    Finn, it s coming!  Get out!!

      Finn hears this and rushes back through the water, pulling 
      himself up onto A LOWER BANK just in time.

      The shadow darts instantly back to its meal, carrying Octavia 
      away even faster now.  In seconds, she ll be gone.

      UP ABOVE, Clarke has an idea.  She drops down behind a  
      boulder poised at the edge of the cliff and starts to push.  
      The boys don t understand, but drop down to help anyway.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    It thought Finn was a threat!  
                    It ll let her go again!

      The boulder rolls.  Clarke and Monty watch it go.  Not 
      Jasper.  He s already moving again, racing along the edge.

      The boulder SPLASHES down.  Sure enough, as Clarke predicted, 
      the shadow whips around again.  As it does, Jasper launches 
      himself, plunging in right beside Octavia, pulling her back.                                                                                        43


      Here comes the still-unseen beast.  It ll be close.

      Jasper shoves Octavia onto the lower bank, scrambling out 
      beside her just as the malevolent shadow rockets past.  

      Octavia collapses into Jasper s very thin arms.  Although the 
      fact that he s holding a nearly naked girl does register, we 
      see it more so on the face of his friend up above.  

                                  MONTY
                    Note to self: next time,        
                    save the girl.

      Clarke looks back to Finn, who is equally impressed...

                                  FINN
                    One good thing about outer space... 
                    no giant, mutant river snakes.

      Everyone LAUGHS.  Even Octavia, though just barely.  Then she 
      sees the TEETH MARKS RUNNING RED on her thigh and goes still.  

      UP ABOVE, Clarke sees it, too, looks to Monty...

                                  CLARKE
                    Help Jasper get her up here.  

      Her eyes go across the river.  THE WRECKAGE OF THE TOWER is 
      now a silhouette amid the trees against the setting sun.  

      It kills her to stop with the goal in sight, but the light is 
      nearly gone, one of her people is wounded, and a man-eating 
      snake is blocking their path.  She SIGHS heavily, then...  

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    We ll cross at first light.


      INT. THE DROPSHIP - LOWER LEVEL - SAME TIME

      It s dark.  The only light comes from a fire outside.     

      We find Wells sitting at a console, trying in vain to coax a 
      signal out of a dead communication system, clearly wallowing 
      in self-pity, when MUSIC wafts in through the open door.  

      It starts as a lament, GIRL S VOICE, haunting and beautiful.  
      Fits Wells  mood perfectly, then ANOTHER VOICE takes it up.  
      Spoken word poetry.  Very much like rap today.  CHEERS go up.  


      EXT. THE LANDING SITE - MOMENTS LATER

      Wells limps from the ship into the full light of a bonfire.                                                                                      44


      The scene playing out around it is almost tribal, fire and 
      MUSIC temporarily pushing hunger and thirst out of mind.

      It draws Wells in, too, but just as he s about to give in to 
      the primal forces, he sees what s taking place at the center:

      Bellamy supervises as the two Johns, wristbands already gone, 
      help a rough-looking GIRL take off hers.

      For the record, the process is painful:  A rod is jammed in, 
      then violently pried up, cracking the band, which is then 
      ripped off.  Let s just say it leaves a mark.

      The band gets tossed into the fire beside TEN OTHERS, then... 

                                    BELLAMY
                    Who s next?! 

                                  WELLS
                    What the hell are you doing?!

      Bellamy turns.  The two Johns converge, but Bellamy holds out 
      a hand, stopping them as a HUSH falls over the crowd.

                                    BELLAMY
                      Liberating ourselves, what s it  
                    look like?

                                  WELLS
                    It looks like you re trying to get 
                    us all killed.
                          (then; to the group)
                    Our communication system is fried.  
                    These wristbands are all we ve got.   
                    Take them off and the Ark will 
                    think we re dying.  That it s not 
                    safe for them to follow.

                                    BELLAMY
                    That s the point, Chancellor.     
                    We can take care of ourselves.  
                          (then; to the crowd)
                    Can t we?

      It draws CHEERS.  Bellamy clearly gets off on the feeling   
      of power.

                                  WELLS
                    You think this is a game?!

      It quiets again.  Wells looks to the crowd, jabbing a finger 
      skyward to indicate the Ark...                                                                                      45


                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                    Those aren t just our parents and 
                    our friends.  They re our farmers.  
                    Our doctors.  Our engineers.  I 
                    don t care what he tells you, we 
                    won t survive here on our own.  
                          (looking back to Bellamy)
                    Besides, if it really is safe, how 
                    could you not want the rest of our 
                    people to come down?

                                    BELLAMY
                    My people already are down.  
                          (pointing at the sky)
                    Those people locked my people up.  
                    Those people killed my mother for 
                    the crime of having a second child.  
                    Your father did that. 

                                  WELLS
                    My father didn t write the laws.

                                    BELLAMY
                    No, he enforced them.  But not 
                    anymore.  Not here.  Here, there 
                    are no laws.  Here, we do whatever- 
                    the-hell we want, whenever-the-hell 
                    we want.  

      The crowd is poised to erupt.  Bellamy feels it.  Loves it.  

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    You don t have to like it, Wells.  
                    You can even try to stop it, change 
                    it, kill me.  You know why?  
                      Whatever-the-hell we want.

      John #1 suddenly pumps his fist in the air... 

                                  JOHN #1
                      Whatever-the-hell we want!

      John #2 picks up the CHANT.  Then TWO MORE.  In seconds, 
         WHATEVER-THE-HELL WE WANT  is booming through the trees.

                                  THE GROUP
                      Whatever-the-hell we want!
                      Whatever-the-hell we want!

      The intensity of it disturbs Wells.  Even some of those who 
      had been helping him earlier are getting swept up in it.    
      He wants to stop them, but knows that he s powerless to.  

      Then something happens that stops it for him:  IT RAINS.                                                                                       46


      Gently, at first, but hard enough to freeze everyone.      
      All eyes go to the sky.  All faces fill with awe.  

      Then the sky opens and it starts to pour, igniting a 
      rapturous frenzy on the forest floor.

      Arms flung wide.  Mouths open.  Drinking.  Bathing.

      At the center of it all stand Wells and Bellamy.  Eyes meet.   
      Bellamy shrugs as if to say  looks like we ve got water. 

                                  WELLS
                    We need to collect this!

                                    BELLAMY
                      Whatever-the-hell you want.

      We stay here as Wells rushes away, no longer feeling pain, 
      gathering A SMALL, BUT NOT INSIGNIFICANT GROUP to help him. 

      As Bellamy watches him go, the thinking behind his eyes is 
      clear: Wells is gonna be a problem.


      INT. THE ARK - EARTH MONITORING STATION - SAME TIME

      Abby and her team are standing before the big board,  
      reacting to the flatlining of another ten of their children.  

      ANOTHER TEN BLACK TILES on the board.

      Although darkness is threatening, we sense that Abby, at 
      least, is still pushing against the worst case scenario...

                                  ABBY
                    Ten more.  One after the next.  

      Jackson notices something else:  Vital signs in the majority 
      of wristband feeds moving in the same direction.  Heart rates 
      rising.  Body temps falling.  PLASMA OSMOLARITY ticking up.

                                    JACKSON
                    Abby, look at plasma osmolarity.   
                    It s going up across the board.

                                  ABBY
                    ... They found water.

      It s the first hopeful sign they ve had since the landing and  
      all of them gather to take it in.  

      Unfortunately, before hope can take root, the door bursts 
      open and a GUARD UNIT, led by Shumway, storms the room.                                                                                        47


                                  COMMANDER SHUMWAY
                      Councillor Abigail Walters, you are 
                    under arrest for violating supply 
                    chain order number twenty-four.

      The guards surround, securing Abby s hands behind her back as 
      Kane strides in behind them...  

                                  KANE
                    I m sorry this has to be public, 
                    but the policy on these matters is 
                    clear.  No special treatment.  

      Abby holds his stare.  Even now, she won t give him an inch.

                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    How much blood did you use, Abby?

                                    JACKSON
                    Don t answer that.

                                  ABBY
                    I used whatever it took.

      Jackson s face falls.  She s admitting it.

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Breaking the law to keep you from 
                    becoming Chancellor was the easiest 
                    decision I ever made.

                                  KANE
                    In that case... given your 
                      confession, in my role as 
                      Chancellor Pro Tempore, I have no 
                    choice but to find you guilty. 

                                  ABBY
                    We always have a choice, Kane.  You 
                    chose to press charges against my 
                    husband, your friend, even though 
                    you knew he d get floated for it.  
                    You chose to include my daughter in 
                    those charges.  And now you re 
                    choosing this.  Hiding behind the 
                    law absolves you of nothing.

                                  KANE
                          (after a beat)
                    Be that as it may, in accordance 
                    with Penal Code One, because all 
                    crimes committed by those above the 
                    age of majority are capital crimes, 
                    I hereby sentence you to death.                                                                                        48


      Abby s team is terrified.  Cracks show in her calm facade.  

                                  KANE (CONT D)
                    Execution is set for the morning.
                          (then; back to Abby)
                    I choose, at every turn and at any 
                    cost, to make sure that the human 
                    race stays alive. 

                                  ABBY
                    There s the difference between us, 
                    Kane.  I choose to make sure that 
                    we deserve to stay alive.

      Kane holds her stare for another moment, before nodding to 
      Commander Shumway.

                                  COMMANDER SHUMWAY
                    Put her in her daughter s cell.

      The guards lead Abby away.  Jackson falls in stride.  

                                  ABBY
                    Watch after the kids.  Connect the 
                    dots.  You can do this.

      With that, she s gone.  Jackson looks sharply back to Kane...

                                    JACKSON
                    This is madness.

                                  KANE
                    This is the law, Dr. Jackson.

                                    JACKSON
                    Then pardon her.  It s in your 
                    power to do that... under the law.

      Kane holds Jackson s pleading stare.  It may be in his power, 
      but it s not in his heart...

                                  KANE
                    Judging from the number of black 
                    squares on the board behind you, I 
                    think it s now safe to say that a 
                    return to Earth is still not an 
                    option.  I ll need your suggested 
                      parameters for population reduction 
                    on my desk as soon as possible.  

      Jackson pales.  Kane strides out.  Door SLAMS.  No one moves.                                                                                      49


      INT. CLARKE S CELL - MINUTES LATER

      Abby is led into her daughter s old cell.  The drawings still 
      on the walls strike her at once, but she shows nothing.  

      Handcuffs are removed.  Guards leave.  Door SLAMS.

      Only now, alone, does she let the full weight of everything 
      show in her face.  Tears stream from her eyes.

      ABBY S POV -- A DRAWING OF THE WOODS AT NIGHT


      EXT. EARTH - THE ENDLESS WOODS - NIGHT

      CLOSE ON CLARKE, asleep on the ground near the others     
      when her eyes suddenly snap open and fill with wonder.

      As she slowly sits up, WE WIDEN TO REVEAL HER SURROUNDINGS:

      Incredibly, the trees and flowers and ground are streaked 
      with iridescent light.  Veins of luminescence.  Multiple 
      colors.  The effect is surreal and spectacular.

      A forest that glows in the dark. 

      Appropriately agog, Clarke stands and moves amid the trees.   
      The sound of the RUNNING RIVER adds to the splendor.  

      Finally, her guard is down and we see the wide-eyed, 
        inquisitive, passionate girl beneath the emotional armor.  

      For the first time, she lets herself feel the wonder of being 
      on Earth.  Only it s unlike the Earth she spent so much time 
      dreaming about.  Indeed, it s practically another planet.

      Her eyes wander to the stars, her mind to the Ark (or heaven) 
      and her mother (or father), when she hears a low voice:  

                                  FINN (O.S.)
                    Pretty cool, huh?

      Startled, she whirls, reverie replaced by embarrassment as 
      she sees him returning through the psychedelic trees.  

      Takes her a moment to react to the fact that he s carrying a 
      cone fastened out of large leaves and filled with water.

                                  CLARKE
                    You went to the river?

                                  FINN
                    Figured it was worth losing a 
                    finger or two.  Here.                                                                                      50


      He moves the cone to her lips.  She takes a tentative sip.

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    You call that a sip?  

      She smiles.  Old habits.  She drinks again, deeply this time, 
      letting it run down her face and neck.  

      When she s done, she has to look away, vibrating from all of 
      it, forcing herself to refocus on the glowing trees... 

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    You think it means we re all gonna 
                    grow two heads?

      Clarke LAUGHS slightly.  

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    What do you know?  She can laugh.

      She gives him a look, then picks a neon leaf.  Incredibly, it 
      dims as if being unplugged.  

                                  CLARKE
                    Oh, now that s cool.

      There s that bright-eyed girl again.  Finn clearly likes this 
      side of her.

                                  CLARKE (CONT D)
                    I ll have to run some tests, but, 
                    right now, my operating theory is 
                    that bioluminescence is an 
                      adaptation.  Sort of a twist on 
                      photosynthesis.  That s --

                                  FINN
                    Plants using sunlight to turn bad 
                    air into good air.

      She s impressed.  He shrugs...

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    Woke up that day in science class.
                    Come here.  You have to see this.

      With that, he strides back through the trees.  She follows, 
      trying to shake her hormonal response to this guy.

      He stops in a particularly surreal spot, squatting to point 
      out something on the ground.  WE SEE THEM AS SHE DOES:

      Strange tracks in the dirt.  Hard to tell, but they could be 
      simian.  A widely separated big toe is clear in some of them.                                                                                       51


      She kneels, curious.  He points...

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    That s a toe.  Plus, near as I can 
                    tell, whatever it is, it s walking 
                    on two feet.  My guess... monkeys.

      Clarke LAUGHS at him.  He gives her a look.

                                  CLARKE
                    Sorry.  It s just... According to 
                      everything I ve read, there were no 
                    bipedal animals anywhere near here, 
                    certainly not monkeys.

                                  FINN
                    Really?  You read anything about 
                      glow-in-the-dark forests or man-
                    eating snakes?

      She meets his stare, sees his point: anything is possible. 

      We sense that a kiss is imminent, or at least if he tried, 
      that she d let him.  He doesn t try.  

      Instead, he reaches back down, fitting his hand into one of 
      the tracks.  He does this to prove his point, but all Clarke 
      sees are the FRESH HACK MARKS on his wristband.

                                  CLARKE
                    Were you trying to take that     
                    off again?

                                  FINN
                    What?  No... I was thinking about 
                    the Ark.  There may be a way to 
                    turn one of these things into a  
                    two-way communication device. 

      She looks at him, once again reminded of her father.

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                     Course, I ll have to run some 
                    tests, but --

      She SMACKS him playfully, LAUGHING again beneath the   
      magical trees.  New world.  New possibilities.


      INT. THE ARK - PART SUPPLY WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

      Raven follows the hard-as-nails JUNK MAN through a shadow-
      filled maze of satellite and space station parts.                                                                                      52


                                  JUNK MAN
                    They set a time for Finn s review?  

      Raven nods slightly.  Hates lying, but she ll do it.

                                  JUNK MAN (CONT D)
                    Don t worry.  If I got through it, 
                    he will.  No way they ll float 
                    someone with skills like his.   
                    Only person better with a wrench 
                    than him is his mother. 

                                  RAVEN
                    I don t remember you being such a 
                    talker, Red.

      Red smiles, comes to a stop in front of something covered by 
      a tarp, pulls it off to reveal a dilapidated ESCAPE POD. 

      One look and we understand: Raven is going after her son.

                                  JUNK MAN
                    Russian.  They found it when they 
                    reeled in Mir in  16.  

                                  RAVEN
                    Does it have a working radio?

                                  JUNK MAN
                    Yeah.  Why do you need a radio?


      EXT. EARTH - THE LANDING SITE - PRE-DAWN

      The group is asleep on the ground all around the smoldering 
      campfire.  The trees here do not glow.  


      INT. THE DROPSHIP - PRE-DAWN

      Wells sleeps alone in the darkened cabin.  

      Suddenly, THERE S A HAND OVER HIS MOUTH.  

      It s Bellamy.  Wells struggles.  Bellamy holds up a gun.    

      No more struggle.  

                                        END ACT FOUR                                                                                      53


                                          ACT FIVE


      EXT. THE WOODS - PRE-DAWN

      Wells walks ahead of Bellamy through the trees.  Far enough 
      now from the dropship that it s no longer in sight.  The gun 
      in Bellamy s hand is not aimed, but Wells senses it just the 
      same.  He rarely turns.  Just keeps walking.

                                    BELLAMY
                    You re a smart kid, Wells.  I see 
                    what you re doing.  The way you 
                    gathered the wood.  Collected the 
                    rain.  You re a natural leader.  
                    Probably made your old man proud.  

      The past tense of that gives Wells pause.  He naturally 
      assumes it means he s about to become past tense.

                                  WELLS
                    Is that why you brought me out 
                    here?  Eliminate your competition?

      Bellamy just keeps walking.  The silence unnerves Wells...

                                  WELLS (CONT D)
                     Cause I m not your competition.  
                    Clarke.  She s the one they ll 
                    follow, not me.  Certainly not you.

                                    BELLAMY
                    That s far enough.  

      They stop near two freshly filled graves.  Clearly, the boys 
      who died on the dropship were buried here.  Wells swallows 
      his fear of being the third, then turns to face Bellamy.     

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    I guess we got more in common than 
                    meets the eye, huh?  We both came 
                    down here to protect someone we 
                    love... and neither one of them 
                      appreciates it.  

      Bellamy LAUGHS.  Wells can t find the humor in it.  Could be 
      the gun.  Bellamy tracks his eyes to it, calmly holds it up.

                                    BELLAMY (CONT D)
                    I don t wanna shoot you, Wells.  
                    Hell, I like you.  
                          (pointing to the sky)
                    But I do need them to think   
                    you re dead.                                                                                       54


                                  WELLS
                    Why?  Why are you doing this?  For 
                    real.  Not some crap about getting 
                    to do what you want to do. 

                                    BELLAMY
                          (after a beat)
                    I have my reasons.  I also have the 
                    gun.  Which means I ask the 
                      questions, and the question is... 
                    why aren t you helping me?      
                    Your father banished you, Wells.      
                    Yet here you are still doing his 
                    bidding.  Following the rules.  
                    Aren t you tired of always doing 
                    what s expected of you?  Stand up 
                    to him.  Take off your wristband.  
                    You ll be amazed how good it feels.  

      Wells stares.  Bellamy thinks he s considering it.  He s not.

                                  WELLS
                    No.  Never.  Not gonna happen.    
                    Is that clear enough for you?

      Bellamy smiles slightly.  The kid s got balls.    

                                    BELLAMY
                    Yes, it is.  I m sorry it had to be 
                    this way.

      With that, he does something unexpected: tucks the gun away 
      behind his back.  

      Before Wells can make sense of it, BOYS APPEAR FROM BEHIND 
      TREES ON ALL FOUR SIDES, the two Johns at Wells  back.  

      Wells knows they mean to take off his wristband.  He tries to 
      make a run for it, but the Johns catch him.  He struggles 
      wildly, but the other two boys jump on and overpower him.

      Bellamy stands apart from the violence, somewhat concerned by 
      the intensity of what he s unleashed.  Not concerned enough 
      to stop it.

      The last thing we see is John #2 moving the rod to Wells  
      wristband and jamming it in as Wells GROWLS in pain and rage.


      EXT. SPACE - THE ARK - PRISON STATION - DAY

      PUSHING IN ON A HANGAR BAY DOOR, a Chinese flag barely 
      visible beneath the grime.                                                                                        55


      INT. PRISON STATION - HANGAR BAY - DAY

      Abby is being ceremonially led across the same hangar bay 
      where her husband was executed.  An armed COLOR GUARD marches 
      ten feet behind.  Jackson and Cece walk on either side.   

      Abby is not crying, not showing fear.  Even as she s led to 
      her death, her mind is on the kids...

                                  ABBY
                    How many more overnight?

                                    JACKSON
                    Abby --

                                  ABBY
                    Goddamn it, Jackson, answer me.

                                    JACKSON
                    Just one.

      She looks at him.  Showing fear for the first time.  The way 
      he said it could only mean Clarke.  Then she hears:

                                    JACKSON (CONT D)
                    Wells.

      A moment of relief followed instantly by crushing sadness.    
      She looks to Cece who clearly already knew.  

                                    JACKSON (CONT D)
                    Just over an hour ago.  Vital signs 
                    spiked, then flatlined.

      Abby knows this is bad.  Wells isn t some delinquent who 
      would take off his wristband and he wasn t injured during 
      landing.  For the first time, outwardly anyway, she 
        acknowledges her deepest fear: she sent her daughter to die.

      Cece takes her hand.  Takes Abby a moment to push past the 
      fact that her world is crashing down, but she manages it...

                                  ABBY
                    Jackson, listen to me.  Kane will 
                    wait until after he s sworn in to 
                    begin reducing the population.

                                  CECE
                    Come on, Ab, the Chancellor could 
                    still make it.

                                  ABBY
                    Even if he does, I won t be here to 
                    argue against Kane.  
                                  (MORE)                                                                                      56

                                  ABBY (CONT'D)
                          (back to Jackson)
                    That has to be you now. 

                                    JACKSON
                    He already asked for 
                      recommendations.

                                  ABBY
                    Good.  No, that s good.  First 
                    thing you ll do is make the case 
                    for a lottery.  If council members  
                    families can be taken, they ll be 
                    less likely to rubber-stamp Kane s 
                    agenda.  You understand?

      Jackson nods, amazed by her strength as they reach the symbol 
      of the Ark on the floor directly below the hangar bay door. 
      This is where they leave her.  Still, Abby s not done...

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Listen to me.  While the council 
                    drags its feet, you do everything 
                    you can to reestablish contact with 
                    the kids.  

      Jackson gets pulled away by a guard.  Before the same can 
      happen to Cece, she lunges forward, hugging her friend.

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                          (fighting back tears)
                    ... Watch over Clarke for me?  

      Cece nods, WEEPING as she s dragged away and Abby is left 
      there all alone.  Terror seeps in, but, remarkably, she 
      buries it, calling after them...

                                  ABBY (CONT D)
                    Jackson!  Use the wristbands!  
                    There may be a way to reverse 
                    engineer them for communication.  
                    Talk to Sinclair in engineering.  
                    Nod if you understand!

      Jackson nods as he and Cece are ushered through a door into 
      an observation room.  Door SLAMS.  Abby is now utterly alone.


      INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - MINUTES LATER

      The witnesses to the execution stand before a wide window.  
      Abby stands alone in a pillar of light across the bay.  
      Prayers are MUTTERED.  Tears on every face, save Kane s.                                                                                      57


      Another beat and he nods to the executioner.  The man lifts 
      his hand, about to bring it down on the button when the door 
      behind them bursts open.  

      Everyone turns to see Chancellor Jaha in a wheelchair being 
      pushed by a very out of breath ORDERLY.  There are tubes and 
      wires coming out of him and he is visibly frail, but anger 
      gives him the strength to stand.  

      He rises in front of an already shaken Kane, then...  

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA
                    Dr. Walters is pardoned.  

      Relief soars.  Kane holds his stare.

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (CONT D)
                    I ll deal with you later.

      Kane glances once more to Abby, who is already striding 
      toward them, before walking off.  

      A guard opens the door and Abby strides in, looking past all 
      of the relieved faces, her eyes landing on the Chancellor...

                                  ABBY
                    I spent twelve hours putting your 
                      intestines back together.  
                          (to the orderly)
                    Get him back into bed.  Now.  

      The orderly tries to lower the Chancellor back to the chair, 
      but he holds out a hand, stopping him.  

      His eyes lock onto Abby s.  We won t be surprised to learn in 
      series that he s in love with her...

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA
                    I m sorry that I couldn t do this 
                    for your husband.  

      She says nothing, simply strides past him, out the door.   
      The Chancellor knows he s unforgiven, looks to the others...  

                                  CHANCELLOR JAHA (CONT D)
                    Someone tell me about the Hundred.       
                    Did they make it?


      INT. KANE S QUARTERS - LATER

      Kane stands in his spartan, meticulously neat quarters, 
      downing a glass of moonshine, letting it warm him when the 
      door opens and Cece strides in.  He says nothing.  She does:                                                                                      58


                                  CECE
                    You can t try to kill everyone who 
                    disagrees with you, Kane.

      He takes another deep drink, then... 

                                  KANE
                    You all think I m the bad guy,   
                    but I m the only one willing to   
                    do what it takes to save us.

      Before she can respond, he pulls her in roughly, pressing his 
      mouth to hers.  She SLAPS him across the face, holding his 
      wide-eyed stare for a moment, before kissing him back.

      Raw, angry passion.  Clearly, these two have secretly been 
      fucking.  This time, before it can get past a kiss, Cece s 
      conscience wins out and she abruptly pushes away from him...

                                  CECE
                    ... She s my best friend!

                                  KANE
                    What do you want me to say,      
                    I m sorry?  I m not.

      Cece stands there for another moment, wondering what the hell 
      she s doing here, disgusted with herself as much as Kane, 
      before finally turning without a word and striding back out.

      Kane simply pours himself another drink.


      EXT. EARTH - THE RIVER - DAY

      Clarke stands with Octavia and Monty on the lip of the gorge.  
      Finn and Jasper are above them in the branches of a tree.

      We see at once that they have gathered several of the vines 
      that are everywhere weeping toward the water and have woven 
      them together to form a rope.  

      At the moment, Finn is testing its strength.  It passes.    
      He looks to Jasper...

                                  FINN
                    You re an evil genius, you      
                    know that?

                                  CLARKE
                    You wanted to go first.  Now stop 
                    stalling.                                                                                      59


                                  JASPER
                    Just hold on until the apogee and 
                    you ll be fine.

                                  FINN
                    Apogee?  You mean the Indians?

                                  JASPER
                    Apogee not Apache.  

                                  CLARKE
                    He knows.  Today, Finn.

                                  FINN
                    Aye aye, Captain.
                          (then; to Jasper)
                    See yah on the other side.

      With that, he launches, swinging down, then out over the 
      river, letting go at the apogee, flying untethered the last 
      twenty feet, before sticking the landing on the far bank.

      For a moment, no one moves, then Finn spins to face them, 
      thrusting his hands in the air like a conquering warrior...

                                  FINN (CONT D)
                    WE... ARE... APOGEE!!

      As the others release their amazement in a collective joyous 
      WHOOP, we begin the subtle use of an UNKNOWN POV.  Could be 
      someone or something is watching them.  Maybe not.

      In A SERIES OF SHOTS, we ll now track the others as they make 
      the same jump.  Next up is Clarke.  

      Her flight is good and her landing is solid, but the ground 
      beneath her crumbles, threatening to pull her into the water.

      Finn pulls her back just in time.  Holds on a moment longer 
      than necessary.  She doesn t mind.

      Octavia SCREAMS like a child on a roller-coaster, offering a 
      special  fuck you  glance down to the river below, before 
      landing gingerly on her bandaged leg.  

      Although she doesn t need it, Jasper s there to catch her, 
      prompting huge smiles from all.  

      Within minutes, all are standing on the far bank, a clear 
      sense of pride on each of their faces.  

      Clearly, the journey has changed them, bonded them.  They are 
      no longer prisoners.  No longer separated by which station 
      they come from.  They are friends.  More.  A team.                                                                                       60


                                  CLARKE
                    Let s go find those supplies.

      As they turn for the ruins of Mount Weather, Octavia is the 
      first to notice that there s something hanging from the trees 
      all around them.  She reaches up and pulls down an apple.  

      The realization that they re standing in an overgrown orchard 
      fills them each with wonder.

      Octavia takes the first bite of fruit in a hundred years.  
      The sweetness of it overwhelms her.   

      Needing to share the experience, she looks to the others.  

      The fact that she offers it to Jasper over Finn surprises her  
      as much as Jasper.  Eating from her hand, he bites into it 
      with abandon, nothing tentative for this kid.  Not anymore.  

                                  JASPER
                    You guys gotta try this.

      The pure joy in his face prompts the others to reach for 
      apples, too, when something happens that changes everything:

      A SPEAR EXPLODES INTO JASPER S CHEST, killing him instantly, 
      pinning him to the tree at his back, leaving him upright.

      So sudden that, for a moment, it s as if none of the others 
      understands what they re looking at.  

      Then Octavia starts to SCREAM.

      Wide, terror-filled eyes shoot back across the river as they 
      take cover behind an outcropping of rocks.  No one is there.  

      But someone was.  Someone who didn t come down on a dropship.  
      Someone who grew up here, learned to throw a spear, to kill.  

      Finally, the words drip like poison from Clarke s lips...  

                                  CLARKE
                    ... We re not alone.

      BLACKNESS.



                                            THE END