                                    VIRTUALITY 

 
                                         Go/No-go  
 
                                        Written by 
 
                                      Michael Taylor 
 
                                        Story by 
 
                              Michael Taylor and Ron Moore 

 

 

 
    BermanBraun Revised Network Draft 
  2900 W. Olympic Blvd., 3rd Floor March 24, 2008 
  Santa Monica, CA 90404 
           
  Universal Media Studios                  
  100 Universal City Plaza                   
  Bldg. 1320 Suite 4M                  
  Universal City, CA 91608 
 
  COPYRIGHT @ 2008 NBC STUDIOS, INC. 
  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. NOT TO BE DUPLICATED WITHOUT PERMISSION 
  This material is the property of NBC Studios, Inc. and is intended solely for use by its personnel. The sale,  
  copying, reproduction or exploitation of this material in any form is prohibited. Distribution or disclosure 
  of this material to unauthorized persons is also prohibited.                      "Wedo not see thingsasthey are; wesee things as we are."


                                        -- The Talmud









                                      "I know Kung Fu."


                                      -- Neo, The Matrix                                        ACT ONE

    FADE IN:

    Or more accurately we  shimmer in,  with a hint of pixilation, 
    as though reality is re-arranging itself into a vibrant 
    tableau, as we find ourselves --

    EXT. GRASSY RIDGE - SUNRISE

    SOMEONEis lying in the tall grass just under the crest of 
    this ridge, the verdant scene AWASH in SUNLIGHT, the SOUND of 
    CRICKETS filling our ears.  The setting feels almost hyper-
    real, every color and sound heightened until they seem to 
    resonate with our own senses.

    A HAND enters frame as a MANruns his fingers through the 
    preternaturally green blades of grass, each shimmering with 
    dew, before plucking one and bringing it to his mouth to 
    chew... as we RISE into a Spaghetti Western-style CLOSE-UP:  
    keen, watchful EYES under the brim of a dusty slouch hat, eyes 
    that have seen more than their share of bloodshed and death.

    MAN S POV:  a bucolic vista of a rural RAILWAY STATION and the 
    sleepy little TOWN built around it.  The locale:  the American 
    South; the time, 1863.  The man raises a set of FIELD GLASSES.

    FIELD GLASS POV:  a platoon's worth of CONFEDERATE SOLDIERS 
    load supplies onto a short freight train that s also taking on 
    water and coal.

    THE MAN lowers the field glasses, then wriggles back on his 
    elbows until he has sufficient cover to stand, revealing that 
    he s wearing the UNIFORM of a Union Colonel.  He walks back 
    down the ridge, where an entire MOUNTED CAVALRY TROOP -- 
    nearly a hundred men, most of whom have seen hard action -- 
    wait in a line, their horses snorting restlessly and pawing 
    the grass.  As the Colonel mounts up beside his grizzled 
    CAPTAIN at the front of the line --

                                      COLONEL
                    Caught em napping, Captain.  Men ready?  

                                      CAPTAIN
                    Ready, willing and eager.

    The Colonel nods, eyeing the troop approvingly -- until his 
    gaze stops on a young CORPORAL, one leg hooked casually over 
    the pommel of his saddle as he looks away at the morning sun.  
    The Colonel frowns.

                                      COLONEL
                    Not inconveniencing you are we, 
                    Corporal?                                                                                    2.


    The corporal turns, revealing a handsome face dominated by a 
    pair of arresting GREEN EYES.  He smiles an innocent, naive 
    smile.

                                      CORPORAL
                    No, sir.  Just admiring the day.

                                      COLONEL
                    You new here, son?

                                      CORPORAL
                    Joined the regiment at Vicksburg, sir.

    The Colonel eyes him for a beat longer, something about this 
    new trooper bothering him on an unconscious level.  Then he 
    draws his sword and nods to his bugler.

                                      COLONEL
                    Give us a tune.

    THE RIDGE - A MOMENT LATER

    The charge SOUNDS as the troop thunders over and down into --

    EXT. SOUTHERN TOWN - MAIN STREET - DAY

    The rebels loading the train at the end of the street scatter.  
    It looks like the Colonel s charge has indeed surprised them.  
    But suddenly, rifles poke out of windows and over the parapets 
    of roofs.  Simultaneously, the door of a freight car at one 
    end of the street slides open, revealing a GATLING GUN, while 
    TWO WAGONS are wheeled out of stables at the other end of the 
    street, blocking it off as more Confederate soldiers take up 
    firing positions behind them.  As the surprised Colonel and 
    his confused troop pull up --

                                      CAPTAIN
                    Colonel, it s a trap!  It s a --

    He s SHOT OFF HIS HORSE.  All hell breaks loose:  a chaotic 
    bloodbath straight out of a Peckinpah film.  Both sides take 
    heavy casualties as bodies tumble from roofs and horses.  And 
    right in the middle of it is --

    THE COLONEL -- slashing with the saber, shooting with his 
    sidearm, a cool customer in the middle of the chaos and 
    carnage all around him.   He wheels and guides his wild-eyed 
    horse with his knees until the animal is SHOT out from under 
    him and they crash to the ground.  As he struggles to free his 
    pinned leg, he suddenly hears:

                                      VOICE
                    You re not fooling anyone, Frank.                                                                                    3.


    The Colonel looks up in astonishment to see:

    THE GREEN-EYED CORPORAL

    standing casually over him, untouched and seemingly 
    unconcerned by the bloody chaos swirling around him, almost as 
    if it didn t exist.  

                                      COLONEL
                    What -- what did you say?

                                      CORPORAL
                    I said you re not fooling anyone, Frank.    
                    Least of all, yourself.

    And so saying, he draws his own revolver and SHOOTS the 
    Colonel in the chest.  The Colonel is knocked back down.  He 
    finds himself staring up at the sky... a BLUE SKY that 
    gradually turns DARK, until the cold pinpricks of STARS 
    appear, and we DISSOLVE TO:

    CLOSE ON THE SAME MAN S FACE

    Eyes closed, head now propped on a temperfoam pillow, some 
    sort of sparely elegant, futuristic HEADSET wrapping around 
    his temples.  He opens his eyes, a confused look on his face 
    as he tries to sort out what happened to him.  The sounds of 
    battle have been replaced by the quiet, nearly inaudible hum 
    of machinery and electronics, the Technicolor surroundings and 
    sweeping cinematography now swapped for de-saturated hues and 
    a more naturalistic hand-held camera -- fantasy, for reality.  
    REVEAL we re in:

    INT. PIKE S QUARTERS

    COMMANDER FRANCIS "FRANK" PIKE, early 40s, takes off his 
    headset, which we'll come to learn enables a neural connection 
    to an advanced virtual reality program, and sits up.

    Pike s quarters have a Zen feel, just a few pieces of ABSTRACT 
    ART on the walls, some hand-painted painted Civil War 
    FIGURINES on a built-in shelf by a digital clock.  He crosses 
    to a small BATHROOM, where he splashes some water on his face, 
    then studies his reflection in a mirror.

                                      PIKE
                    Jean -- messages?

    A disembodied MALE ELECTRONIC VOICE replies.                                                                                    4.


                                      JEAN (A.I. VOICE)
                    Just two, sir.  Doctor Meyer would like 
                    to speak with you and Mister Braun 
                    wanted to know if you d had a chance to 
                    catch the results of the Game.

    Pike groans inwardly.

                                      PIKE
                    And they were?

                                      JEAN
                    New York, 27 to 10.

    That sucks.  Pike pulls on a lightweight Patagonia crew 
    jacket, the brand name prominent, and EXITS into --

    INT. PHAETON - CORRIDOR

    ...a long, heavily insulated CORRIDOR, broken up by a series 
    of small PLEXI WINDOWSthrough which we glimpse SPACEand the 
    distant STARS.  As Pike walks along, we PULL BACKthrough one 
    of the windows to hover --

    EXT. SPACE - PHAETON

    -- outside the corridor, revealing it to be part of an aft 
    LIVING MODULE of a LARGE SPACE CRAFT, long as a football field 
    and comprised of a variety of interconnected modules rotating 
    with a spinning cylindrical core, capped at the prow by a 
    wedge-like armored flange, like the head of a battering ram, 
    and at the stern by a ring of ion drive THRUSTERS encircling a 
    series of thick alloy DISKS.

    The overall look is neither sleek  Star Trek  nor Gothic 
     Alien  but something much closer to a blandly contemporary 
    NASA design, only scaled up in size and reflecting more 
    advanced technology.  The name "PHAETON" is painted on the 
    side beside the familiar NASA LOGO, and a larger CORPORATE 
    LOGO of the private Consortium that is funding this mission.  
    And as we PUSH IN on the ship s name, we CUT TO:

    INT. CONFESSIONAL

    A MAN faces camera in CLOSE-UP, a RED COUCH visible in the 
    b.g. inthis otherwise featureless room.  He s in his early 
    40s, roughly handsome, with intelligent eyes that guard a hard 
    kernel of bitterness.  We ll come to know him as DR. JAMES 
     JIMMY  JOHNSON, a nuclear scientist and engineer.  TIME CODE 
    tells us we re watching a VIDEO RECORDING.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Why am I going?  You re asking me this 
                    now?                                                                                    5.


    In response to someone s inaudible off-camera prompt, Johnson 
    sighs, then begins a somewhat by-the-numbers recitation:

                                      JOHNSON(cont d)
                    Because when technology offers us the 
                    chance to expand our horizons, our 
                    innate curiosity compels us take it.  As 
                    a species, we have a need to explore.
                          (beat)
                    That what you re looking for?

    He looks at the o.c. presence for a moment, doesn t like what 
    he hears.

                                      JOHNSON(cont d)
                    Look, I do my job, okay?  I m not here 
                    to give the old sales pitch to the dopes 
                    sitting back home sucking on the Inter-V 
                    teat, okay?  That s your problem -- I 
                    got enough of my own.

    And as he glares angrily at camera, we CUT TO:

    INT. CORRIDOR

    A man in an ELECTRIC WHEELCHAIR is rolling toward Pike.  A 
    beat as we realize it s Johnson.  He s a paraplegic, uses his 
    good arm to manipulate the chair s joystick.

    As the pair get closer, they exchange familiar greetings --

                                      PIKE
                    Dr. J.

                                      JOHNSON
                    El Jefe.

                                      PIKE
                          (in SPANISH)
                    How are the children?

                                      JOHNSON
                          (in SPANISH)
                    Ready to make big boom.

    And as Johnson glides past, heading for our camera --

    INT. MESS AREA - SURVEILLANCE CAMERA ANGLE

    A very different shot of a very different Johnson:  inebriated 
    at a BIRTHDAY PARTY, a bottle in his hand and flanked by 
    several crew members we have yet to meet, as he looks up 
    toward camera and offers a mocking toast --                                                                                    6.


                                      JOHNSON
                     Why am I going?   Hey Fallon -- you 
                    still want know why I m going?   Cause I 
                    like to blow things up!

    The image FREEZES as we REVEAL we ve been watching this on an 
    SCREEN in a dark room.  The frozen image is dragged into an 
    AVID-style editing timeline, as camera PANS to an adjacent 
      SURVEILLANCE-STYLE MONITOR, where Pike can now be seen 
    climbing a ladder into an access conduit, then out of view.

    EXT. PHAETON

    Camera pushes in on the exterior of the access tunnel:  a tube 
    connecting two modules, about a third of the way forward.

    INT. VERTICAL ACCESS CONDUIT

    Pike climbs up the narrow tube and into a larger HUB where 
    ALICE THIBADEAU and her husband and fellow exobiologist KENJI 
    YAMAGUCHI, both in their 30s look a bit flushed and disheveled 
    for two people supposedly just standing there working a 
    maintenance console.

                                      ALICE
                    Commander.  Hey.

                                      KENJI
                    How s it going?

                                      PIKE
                    Alice, Kenji...

                                      KENJI
                    We were just, um...

                                      ALICE
                    ...Yeah, were uh...

                                      PIKE
                    I m sure you are.  Carry on.

    As Pike climbs past them into another narrow portion of the 
    conduit, the couple trade  busted  looks, off which --

    INT. CONFESSIONAL

    Alice and Kenji sit on the red couch, holding hands as they 
    talk to the camera.

                                      ALICE
                    Having a partner makes a huge difference 
                    on a mission like this, especially now 
                    with  Go/no-go  just days away.                                                                                    7.


                                      KENJI
                          (nodding)
                    It s all comes down to this -- all the 
                    planning, all the training.  One last 
                    chance to pull the plug or take the 
                    plunge.

                                      ALICE
                          (ribbing him)
                    One last chance to mix our metaphors.

                                      KENJI
                    Hey...

    He elbows her playfully.  Then, to camera --

                                        KENJI(cont d)
                    Seriously, just knowing she s here, 
                    right here -- not a few million miles 
                    away -- makes a huge difference.  

                                      ALICE
                    I don t think either of us could ve done 
                    it ourselves.

                                      KENJI
                    I don t think anyone could.  NASA didn t 
                    even consider applications from married 
                    astronauts unless the spouse was one 
                    too.

                                      ALICE
                    I think we re pretty lucky.  Nothing 
                    like a ten-year adventure to add some 
                    romance right?

    And as they beam at each other and snuggle closer...

    RESUME: INT. ACCESS CONDUIT HUB

    Kenji and Alice watch Pike as he disappears from view --

                                      KENJI
                    He knows.

                                      ALICE
                    Maybe.  Didn t help that your pants are 
                    on backwards.

    Kenji looks down, then shrugs and grins.

                                      KENJI
                            (suggestive)
                    Guess I gotta take  em off again.                                                                                    8.


    And as they start to strip off each other s clothes, giggling 
    like a married couple enjoying a second honeymoon, it s now 
    pretty obvious what Pike interrupted.

                                      ALICE
                    Have we run out of new places?

                                      KENJI
                    There s still the core.

                                      ALICE
                    Zero-G?  Could be tricky.

    And as they laugh again as he pushes her up against a bulkhead 
    and she wraps her legs around him --

    EXT. PHAETON

    Pushing in now on a bulbous module near the ship s midpoint, 
    with a skylight-like slit on one outer wall.

    INT. CORRIDOR

    At the end of a corridor, Pike opens a hatch marked 
     HYDROPONICS  and enters --

    INT. GREENHOUSE

    A high-tech oasis in space:  a variety of plants growing in 
    hydroponic tables rising in tiers up the curving sides of the 
    module like the terraces of a rice paddy, illuminated by 
    bright LED lighting.  Pike walks along a central path at the 
    base of the module, alongside other plants in bins of 
    synthetic soil, meanwhile looking up at...

    ...microbial ecologist RIKA GODDARD, an attractive woman in 
    her late 20s with a runner s physique, who s testing the 
    solution in one of the hydroponic beds.

                                      PIKE
                    You re up early.  Aren t you on 
                    nightshift this week?

                                      RIKA
                    Couldn t sleep.  Hey -- I left some 
                    greens down there.  Mind taking them to 
                    the guys?

                                      PIKE
                    No problem.

    As she watches him grab a bucket of greens sitting nearby --                                                                                    9.


    INT. CONFESSIONAL

    Rika on the red couch, talking to camera.

                                      RIKA
                    You could say plants are better adapted 
                    to space travel than we are.  They don t 
                    need soil, only the nutrients it 
                    contains.  They don t care if their 
                    light comes from the sun or an LED lamp.  
                    They have a much greater tolerance for a 
                    reduced geomagnetic field.
                          (beat)
                    They don t get lonely.
                          (beat)
                    Do I miss Earth?  Sure.  Sometimes.  The 
                    good parts.  I miss the good parts.

    Her expression darkens slightly -- or is it wistful?

                                        RIKA(cont d)
                    But I guess we re about to say goodbye 
                    to all that, the good and the bad... I 
                    mean really goodbye.
                          (pensive)
                    Ten years...

    And as her voice trails off, we --

    RESUME: INT. GREENHOUSE

    Rika watches Pike exit with something more than just a 
    colleague s casual interest, then goes back to her plants (and 
    the keen-eyed may notice a flash of gold WEDDING BAND on her 
    ring finger).

    INT. CONFESSIONAL

    Now facing us on the couch:  MANNY RODRIGUEZ, 32, a wiry, 
    intense mathematician -- boot-strapped out of a barrio on the 
    strength of his gifts -- and his partner VALENTIN ( VAL ) 
    ORLOV, 35, a bearish Russian geologist. 

                                      MANNY
                    When I was a kid, there were these rocks 
                    we used to dive off in Rosarito, back 
                    when there still was a Rosarito.  Once 
                    we dared each other to do it at night.  
                    You couldn t even see the water... just 
                    had to tell yourself it was there.
                          (beat)
                    That s what this reminds me of.                                                                                    10.


                                      VAL
                          (nodding)
                     Leap of faith. 

                                      MANNY
                    Yeah -- faith that what we thinkis out 
                    there isout there...

                                      VAL
                    ...and we will find it... ifwe go.
                          (beat)
                     To go or no go,  that is question, eh?

    And as they exchange tense looks...

    INT. GALLEY

    Part of a mixed-use social area that includes a dining area 
    (MESS) and a partitioned-off briefing area.  Manny and Val are 
    cooking dinner, Val methodically dicing an onion, eyes 
    tearing, while Manny casually shakes spices into a sauce pot.

                                      MANNY
                    You done with that yet?

                                      VAL
                    I keep telling you -- is not about just 
                    throwing things in pot.

                                      MANNY
                    I keep telling you,  bro, this ain t a 
                    restaurant and I ve got real work to do.

                                      VAL
                    So do I, and your bitchings won t get 
                    this done faster,  bro. 

    At which point Pike enters, setting the greens on a counter.

                                      PIKE
                    Fresh from the garden.

                                      VAL
                    Good.  We make salad.

    Pike dips a finger into Manny s sauce pot, gets his hand 
    slapped for his trouble.

                                      MANNY
                    Hey!

                                      PIKE
                          (tasting)
                    Needs salt.                                                                                    11.


    He exits, the two men looking after him for a beat before 
    returning to their bickering.

                                      VAL
                    I tell you more salt, you no listen.  
                    You no ever listen!

                                      MANNY
                    I no listen?  Ino listen?!  Let me tell 
                    you something you big stupid sack of --

    INT. SICKBAY

    Pike pokes his head into the compact, high-tech sickbay.

                                      PIKE
                    Doc?  Meyer, you in here?

    But the space is empty.  Pike addresses the ship s A.I.

                                        PIKE(cont d)
                    Jean, can you locate the doctor?

                                      JEAN
                    Dr. Meyer is in the forward observation 
                    room.

    Pike shrugs, wondering a bit at that, then exits as we CUT TO:

    INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

    The planet NEPTUNE is a small blue sphere visible in the 
    center of a wall-sized viewing port.  But DR. EYAL MEYER, 36, 
    Phaeton s medical officer, isn t even looking, his attention 
    focused instead on a large PET SCAN of a human brain that has 
    been projected on a translucent wall panel.

    The scan renders the twin hemispheres a deep, oceanic blue, 
    while in the center and upper third of the image, an area of 
    neural activity appears as two kidney-shaped ovoids of red -- 
    like pulses of heat in those cool depths.

    Meyer, a controlled, thoughtful man, studies the scan with an 
    intent but otherwise neutral expression.

                                      MEYER
                    Jean, analysis?

                                      JEAN
                    I estimate a six-point-three percent 
                    decrease in dopamine activity in the 
                    basal ganglia.  
                                      (MORE)                                                                                    12.

                                      JEAN (cont'd)
                    Also, a two-point-four percent increase 
                    in the accumulation of transition metals 
                    on neurons in the substantia nigra.  
                    Would you like more detail, Doctor?

                                      MEYER
                    No, Jean.  That s fine.

    And as he continues to study the scan --

    INT. PHAETON - ANOTHER CORRIDOR

    Pike enters the long corridor, then reacts to the sight of 
    BILLIE KASHMIRI.28, entering at the other end.  Billie s the 
    ship s computer specialist, but right now she s playing 
    another role, gesturing oddly while appearing to talk to 
    herself.

                                      BILLIE
                          (to herself)
                    So as we prepare to slingshot around the 
                    iridescent planet of Neptune -- 
                      slinging... sling-shotting around the 
                    glowing blue jewel that is Neptune...

    Pike sighs inwardly, as if anticipating an unpleasant 
    encounter, knows he can t avoid her at this point, and forces 
    himself to keep heading toward the woman talking to herself at 
    the other end of the corridor.  But at this point we CUT TO:

    INT. CONFESSIONAL

    Billie seated on the couch, answering a question.

                                      BILLIE
                    Am I nervous?  Sure.  I get nervous 
                    every time we make a course adjustment.  
                    And now, with  go/no-go ? -- I guess 
                    we re all a little freaked out.
                          (beat)
                    But so what.  This is what we signed on 
                    for, right?  The real question is 
                    whether what we fear is worth what we 
                    might find.

    INT. EDITING BAY - CLOSE ON MONITOR

    We re tight on another editing monitor again, this time 
    watching a SURVEILLANCE VIEWof Billie looking frustrated as 
    she walks along a corridor, wearing what looks like a 
    bluetooth HEADSET that incorporates a tiny VIDEOCAM.  A red 
    light pulses:  it s recording.                                                                                    13.


    A man s HAND taps a button on a keyboard, and the image CUTS 
    to a DIFFERENT ANGLE from a different surveillance camera--

                                      BILLIE (ON MONITOR)
                    ... the topaz-blue jewel that is roaring 
                    past the burning blue flame in the 
                    darkness that is Neptune -- 

                                      FALLON (O.C.)
                    Billieeee.

    On the monitor, Billie reacts to what is clearly a voice in 
    her headset.

                                      BILLIE (ON MONITOR)
                    What?

    REVEAL ROGER FALLON, 40, learning forward to speak into an 
    intercom as he works his editing console, situated amidst a 
    curving bank of surveillance-style monitors that show various 
    views of the ship s interior and exterior.  Fallon is both the 
    ship s psych officer and its on-board media liaison, and has 
    an avuncular air that is as disarming as it is misleading.

                                      FALLON
                    Just keep it simple.  Let the situation 
                    speak for itself.

    INTERCUT:  INT. CORRIDOR - BACK ON BILLIE ON THE MOVE

    We cut back and forth between the editing bay angles and the 
    real time action in the Corridor.  Billie pitches her 
    narrative toward the surveillance cameras, knowing exactly 
    where each one is located.

                                      BILLIE
                    Sorry.
                          (tryingagain)
                    As Phaeton approaches our final  go/no-
                    go  point, where a slingshot around 
                    Neptune can send us home or launch us 
                    into deep space and the next phase of 
                    our five-year journey to Eridani, the 
                    air of tension aboard is palpable. 

    And now she notices Pike approaching and her face lights up, 
    like a castaway at the sight of a potential rescuer.

                                        BILLIE(cont d)
                    And here s the man who will ultimately 
                    decide whether ship and crew are fit to 
                    continue this extraordinary mission.  
                                      (MORE)                                                                                    14.

                                      BILLIE (cont d)
                    It s been a team effort so far, but now 
                     go/no-go  rests squarely on his 
                    shoulders.  Frank... I mean 
                      Commander...?

    Pike stops, but his expression remains wary.

                                        BILLIE(cont d)
                          (sotto)
                    We could really use some more interview 
                    footage of you.  You know, the last one 
                    didn t go quite like we, um --

    Pike smiles into the lens of her miniature videocam.

                                      PIKE
                    Hey Roger, is it true you get a cut of 
                    every download and webstream back on 
                    Earth?  I m sure our viewers would love 
                    to know about the financial interests of 
                    the ship s therapist.  I know I would.

    In the editing bay Fallon sighs in irritation, clearly no love 
    lost between these two.  But Pike just smiles and heads off.  
    Fallon speaks in Billie s earpiece.

                                      FALLON (HEADSET)
                    Forget it.  We ll deal with the 
                      commander s passive aggression later.  
                    Head up to the core.

    INT. FLIGHT DECK

    On the Flight Deck -- the cockpit or control center of Phaeton 
    -- co-pilot SUE PARSONS, 32, is kicked back in her chair with 
    her feet up on her console, eyes closed and wearing a headset 
    like the one Pike had on earlier, while DR. JULIUS  JULES  
    BRAUN, 42, a former NASA scientist and college professor, 
    wearing a N.Y. Giants ball cap, finishes a webcam interview as 
    Fallonnods and edits in an iChat-style window on his screen.

                                      JULES
                    ... It s the first large-scale 
                      application of this technology, without 
                    which Phaeton would never be capable of 
                    the near-light speeds that will let us 
                    reach another star system in a matter of 
                    years instead of lifetimes...

                                      FALLON (MONITOR)
                    Great, Jules, that s all I need.

    Fallon s image disappears as Pike enters and makes a quick 
    check of the instrument panels.  Jules looks over with a grin.                                                                                    15.


                                      JULES
                    Oh, and look who owes me money.

                                      PIKE
                    Blocked field goal and a bad pass 
                    interference call -- that s what you 
                    call dumb luck.

    Jules grabs a small FOAM FOOTBALL, spirals it to Pike.

                                      JULES
                    No, that s what I call tough D, a good 
                    referee, and five g syou owe me, buddy.  
                    At this rate you re gonna owe me around 
                    five millionby the time we get back.

                                      PIKE
                          (tossing the ball back)
                    I ll make it back in baseball season.

    He eyes Sue, still zoned out in her chair.  Her eyes flick and 
    move to images only she can see.  Jules apologizes for her.

                                      JULES
                    She was up all night checking the 
                    acceleration grids for erosion.
                          (re: her headset)
                    Said she had to  get wet. 
                          (off his look)
                    Surfing.  It s her new thing.

    Pike nods and exits, as we push in on Sue s headset until we 
    hear the FAINT SOUND of BREAKING WAVES, as if we re listening 
    to a sea shell, and a broad grin spreads across her face...

    EXT. PHAETON 

    Pushing in on a section near the prow, where a reinforced 
    viewing window looks out on the void.  We ve traversed the 
    length of the ship.

    INT. PHAETON - OBSERVATION ROOM

    The doctor now staring out at that distant  blue jewel  of 
    Neptune, hanging in space.  He doesn t turn as Pike enters.

                                      PIKE
                    Hey, doc.  You wanted to see me?

                                      MEYER
                    Yes.  I ve got something I need to tell 
                    you...
                          (turning to face him)
                                      (MORE)                                                                                    16.

                                      MEYER (cont'd)
                    ...and I m afraid it may seriously 
                    jeopardize the mission.  A member of the 
                    crew is ill.  Seriously ill.  In fact... 
                    it could be fatal.

                                      PIKE
                    Who?

    Meyer starts to answer, then glances up at a CAMERA in the 
    bulkhead.  He motions Pike closer and whispers in his ear.

    INT. EDIT BAY

    Where Fallon has indeed been eavesdropping.  And as he watches 
    Pike s surprised reaction on a MONITOR, Fallon s face is more 
    intrigued than concerned...

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                      END ACT ONE                                                                                    17.


                                        ACT TWO

    DARKNESS

    Then a single SPOTLIGHT cuts through the air -- air that 
    veritably vibrates with the HUM of anticipation as 15,000 
    unseen people hold their breath -- and FINDS...

    A GUITAR PICK

    Held aloft in a woman s raised HAND.  The HUM builds to a LOW 
    ROAR as those thousands of voices now beg for release.  Then 
    the hand DESCENDS, slashing across the strings of a scarred 
    Les Paul guitar in a massive power chord, causing...

    INT. TOKYO - BUDOKAN ARENA - NIGHT

    ... the HUGE CROWD to erupt as Billie Kashmiri, now dressed 
    like a Joan Jett-like rocker, only with a few zillion 
    kilowatts more charisma and confidence -- leads her band, the 
    Hellraisers (the name  Nikki Stardust and the Hellraisers  
    emblazoned on a BANNER behind them), into -- of all things -- 
    a hard-rock version of the Mary Tyler Moore theme song -- IN
    JAPANESE.  It all but ignites the crowd as they SING ALONG, 
    standing and waving lighters, before the final power chords 
    come crashing down to thunderous applause.

    A sweat-soaked, exhausted but jubilant Billie/Nikki Stardust 
    acknowledges the cheers of the crowd with a raised fist -- as 
    we ZOOM IN on her IN-EAR MONITOR, where a voice crackles:

                                      ROADIE S VOICE
                    Nikki, we just got a fix on Lazarus  
                    position.  He s in Shanghai.

    The crowd chants  Nikki! Nikki!  as she triggers a throat mic:

                                      BILLIE
                    Skip the encore.  Prep the chopper.
                          (tocrowd, in JAPANESE)
                    WE LOVE YOU TOKYO!

    INT. BACK STAGE - MOMENTS LATER

    Billie leads her band off stage, handing her guitar to a 
    ROADIE in a Hawaiian shirt and sunglasses, who in return hands 
    her a water bottle and a dossier.  She flips through the file, 
    finds a single, slightly blurry SURVEILLANCE PHOTO of a bald 
    man with a scarred face stepping off an expensive YACHT.

                                      BILLIE
                    This our only shot?                                                                                    18.


                                      ROADIE
                          (nods)
                    And both Interpol and MI6 believe he s 
                    changed his appearance again.

                                      BILLIE
                    All the plastic surgery in the world 
                    won't save his ass this time.  
                      Hellraisers -- let s roll!

    As she leads her band/commando squad off, we hang back with 
    the roadie, who flips up his sunglasses to reveal a pair of 
    startling GREEN EYES.  It s the same man we saw in Pike s 
    Civil War scenario.  And off his enigmatic smile...

                                      FALLON (O.S.)
                    Lunch break s over, Billie.

    The screen goes dark as we re SUCKED out of this virtual 
    reality and deposited back into --

    INT. PHAETON - EDIT BAY

    Finding Fallon at his editing deck and Billie on a couch, 
    taking off her V.R. headset.  By now we re beginning to 
    appreciate the casual way these personal virtual reality 
    interludes are woven into the fabric of life on the ship.

                                      FALLON
                    I finished a rough cut of yesterday s 
                    shoot.  Thought you might like to have a 
                    look.

                                      BILLIE
                    It s terrible, isn t it?  I mean Iwas 
                    terrible.  I knew it.

                                      FALLON
                    On the contrary.  You have an obvious 
                    talent for on-camera work and I m going 
                    to recommend that you become the new 
                    host of the documentary series.

                                      BILLIE
                    Me?  The host?  I m a computer geek, not 
                    some Inter-Vstar.

                                      FALLON
                    You underrate yourself, as always.  The 
                    network tells me you test well -- people 
                    relate to you, women especially -- and 
                    the truth is I was never very good in 
                    front of a camera myself.
                          (re: his editing console)
                                      (MORE)                                                                                    19.

                                      FALLON (cont'd)
                    So while I ll continue to lend a hand 
                     behind the scenes,  so to speak, I 
                    gratefully cede the stage to you.

                                      BILLIE
                    Dr. Fallon... I don t know what to say.

                                      FALLON
                    Frankly, it s time I put my focus back 
                    on my  day job.   Once we pass  go/no-
                    go  and the realities of this mission 
                    sink in, my responsibilities as psych 
                    officer are sure to increase.
                          (indicatesher V.R. headset)
                    The virt modules may provide a 
                      psychological haven of sorts -- a safe 
                      environment for the crew to defuse their 
                    anxieties...  blow off steam  -- but 
                    there are still bound to be tensions, 
                    and I m afraid some of them may be 
                    displaced onto you.

                                      BILLIE
                    Onto me?  Why?

                                      FALLON
                    It would be natural for some of the crew 
                    to develop feelings of envy or 
                      resentment.  In a way, you ll be the 
                    narrator of this mission -- helping to 
                    shape the way it s perceived by billions 
                    of viewers.  No doubt there are some 
                    aboard Phaeton who will complain about 
                    your choices.

                                      JEAN
                    Excuse me, Dr. Fallon.  Manny and Val 
                    would like to speak with you.

                                      FALLON
                    Speaking of complaints -- I ll be right 
                    with them, Jean.
                          (to Billie)
                    We ll talk more later.  For now, 
                    congratulations and enjoy your 
                    accomplishment.  You earned it.

    And as Billie stands to leave, still absorbing it all...

    INT. PHAETON - BIO-LAB - CLOSE ON MONITOR

    Where KATE THIBADEAU, late 20s, is propped up in a hospital 
    bed, breast-feeding her newborn son as she beams at camera.                                                                                    20.


                                      KATE (MONITOR)
                    Nothing like being reduced to a source 
                    of nourishment to put you in your place.  
                    Seriously,  sis, I hope you know how 
                    grateful we are to you for helping us 
                    relocate.  Don t know if you see a lot 
                    of news footage up there, but the Gulf 
                    Coast looks like a lost cause.

    REVEAL Alice is watching the screen, while Rika studies some 
    slides in a microscope nearby.  Kate starts tearing up.

                                      KATE (MONITOR)(cont d)
                    Little Coker here will be in his teens 
                    by the time you get back... so he ll 
                    thank his big brave aunt in person  --
                          (the baby starts crying)
                    Whoops.  Better hang up before I start 
                    bawling too.  Bye,  sis.  Love you.

    The screen goes BLANK.  Alice stares at her blank screen for a 
    thoughtful beat, while Rika looks over sympathetically.

                                      RIKA
                    I ever tell you I was seriously thinking 
                    of getting pregnant right before we went 
                    into training?

                                      KATE
                    No.  You?

                                      RIKA
                    Yeah.  Wasn t the right time though -- 
                    lot of reasons, not just the mission.
                          (beat)
                    Sometimes I wonder if I made the right 
                    choice...

    Alice looks surprised as she goes back to work, manipulating a 
    3-D model of a primordial RNA molecule on her screen.

                                        RIKA(cont d)
                    You and Kenji ever talk about kids?

    Even as Alice talks, her pace and focus on her work only 
    increases, as if she s trying to distract herself.

                                      ALICE
                    Sure.  And we knew when we applied that 
                    it meant giving up having kids.  But it 
                    was a conscious decision and we don t 
                    have any regrets.                                                                                    21.


    Rika nods, then goes back to work.  OFF Alice, her expression 
    nearly blank as she fixates on the computer screen...

    INT. EDIT BAY

    Monitors now playing news and weather broadcasts from Earth, 
    including a satellite view of a massive hurricane spiral 
    hanging over the Gulf states.  The sound is muted as Fallon 
    tries to focus on editing the footage from Billie s tour 
    despite the presence of two angry visitors:  Manny and Val.

                                      MANNY
                    We are scientists, dammit, PhD s, and 
                    you re trying to turn us into a pair of 
                    bitchy kitchen queens!

                                      FALLON
                    I didn t put you in the galley.  I don t 
                    even make those assignments.

                                      MANNY
                    And yet the somehow footage of us 
                    bickering keeps ending up in the show.

                                      FALLON
                    I d be glad to help you with your 
                      interpersonal issues in counseling.  But 
                    as executive producer of this mission I 
                    have a responsibility to provide our 
                    network partners with an accurate 
                    depiction of life aboard this ship.

                                      VAL
                    We all make -- how you say? -- Devil s 
                    bargain.  And you are Devil.

    Fallon sighs, no longer the avuncular mentor but a harried 
    producer with little patience for the temperamental  talent. 

                                      FALLON
                    I m speaking to you now honestly and for 
                    your own good.  Our download and 
                    streaming numbers have been slipping.  
                    The network wants better material.  
                     More drama.   So when you choose to 
                    vent your marital issues in the public 
                    areas of the ship, they become fair 
                    game.  And if either of you refuse to 
                    cooperate, you ll both be held in 
                    violation of the  additional duties  
                    clause of your contract.                                                                                    22.


                                      MANNY
                    We re 400 million miles from Earth, 
                    Roger.  What are you gonna do -- sue us?

                                      FALLON
                    That shouldn t be your only 
                      consideration.

    He taps a monitor showing a storm surge overwhelming a levee.

                                        FALLON(cont d)
                    Dry land is an increasingly expensive 
                    commodity back home and you both have 
                    family members applying for relocation 
                    waivers.  You breach your contracts, the 
                    Consortium will revoke the waivers and 
                    your families will have to get in line 
                    like everyone else. 

    He doesn t need to spell it out; the implication is clear.

                                      VAL
                    Like I said.  Devil s bargain.

                                      JEAN
                    Attention all crew.  Please report 
                      immediately to the Briefing Room.

    INT. BRIEFING AREA  - A SHORT TIME LATER

    Dropping into an intense meeting involving all of our twelve 
    crew members, who are scattered on various couches and chairs, 
    our documentary-style POV alternating between our own HANDHELD 
    CAM and the still jerkier roving lens of the VIDEOCAM now 
    being wielded by Billie, which at the moment is aimed at SUE, 
    who s angrily accusing someone off-screen...

                                      SUE
                      Questions?!  Damn right I ve got 
                    questions...

    ...as our HANDHELD now finds VAL, sitting beside Manny with 
    two mugs of coffee from the galley.

                  SUE(cont d)VAL
    ...starting with how long have (re: coffee, overlapping)
    you known about this and why Careful.  Is very hot.
    are the rest of us just 
    hearing about it now?

    Manny nods a distracted thanks as he accepts the mug... as the 
    VIDEOCAM now WHIP-PANS to PIKE, responding evenly to Sue...                                                                                    23.


                                      PIKE
                    That s really not the issue.

                                      SUE
                    The hell it isn t, Frank...

    ... OUR HANDHELD now on KENJI and ALICE, also sitting 
    together, Kenji nodding morosely as he mutters to her...

                                      KENJI
                    Knew it.  Things were going too smooth.

    ...before Sue reacts to the VIDEOCAM being thrust in her face. 

                                      SUE
                    And get that flippin  thing outta my 
                    face!

                                      BILLIE (O.C.)
                    Just doing my job...

    And so on, in this fractured mode, Johnson now observing 
    sarcastically to Rika, who s sitting beside his wheelchair --

                                      JOHNSON
                    So that s her job now?

                                      FALLON
                    Please, everyone, let s give ourselves a 
                    chance to absorb all the information 
                    before making accusations.

                                      SUE
                    It s a question, not an accusation.

                                      PIKE
                    And here s your answer:  the doctor came 
                    to me yesterday with his preliminary 
                    diagnosis.  I asked him to take some 
                    more time to confirm it.  He did, and 
                    now you re being briefed.

                                      VAL
                       Parkinson s.   What is this disease?

                                      MEYER
                    In brief, it's is a chronic, 
                    degenerative disorder of the central 
                    nervous system --

                                      KENJI
                    -- Degenerative?  Does that mean it s 
                    fatal?                                                                                    24.


                                      MEYER
                    Not on its own, but it can create 
                      complications that are.  So far I ve 
                    only experienced some warning signs.  
                    Hand tremors... cramped handwriting --

                                      JOHNSON
                    -- So you won't win a penmanship award.  
                    What s next on the hit parade?  You 
                    start drooling?

    Some of the others cringe at Johnson s caustic tone.  But 
    Meyer takes it in stride, as if accepting it as his due.

                                      MEYER
                    Problems with mobility... also with 
                    speech and swallowing.  Fatigue.  
                    Impaired dexterity and coordination.  
                    Possible non-motor symptoms include mood 
                    disorders, problems with impulse control 
                    and prioritizing and assessing data.  
                    Short term memory loss and dementia, 
                    including hallucinations and paranoia, 
                    are fairly common late-term 
                      developments.

    And Johnson laughs, the others now turning to him in shock.  
    But Meyer almost smiles too, as if appreciating a bleak joke.

                                        MEYER(cont d)
                    Oh, man... we are screwed...

                                      JULES
                    Can it be controlled by medication and, 
                    if so, do we have those medications?

                                      MEYER
                    Yes, to varying degrees... and yes, but 
                    only in limited supplies.
                          (off reactions)
                    We didn t plan for something like this.  

                                      ALICE
                          (to Kenji)
                    So much for all that genetic pre-
                    screening.

    Pike steps forward, takes control again.

                                      PIKE
                    Okay.  We were coming up on the go/no-go 
                    decision point anyway.  All this means 
                    is that we re facing it a little sooner 
                    than we anticipated...                                                                                    25.


                                      SUE
                    I say go.

                                      VAL
                    Dementia, hallucinations, paranoia...

                                      MEYER
                    Those are possiblesymptoms -- and far 
                    down the road at present.

                                      MANNY
                    I m with Sue.  There s a lot riding on 
                    this mission and I don t want to turn 
                    back unless we absolutely have to.

    Val looks at him, surprised, as Fallon plays to the camera --

                                      FALLON
                          (low)
                    This is a dangerous moment for the crew 
                    of the Phaeton.  Hitherto buried 
                    divisions and animosities could 
                      potentially burst forth into open 
                    conflict.

    Which is in fact what he is disingenuously hoping to 
    accomplish for by fanning the flames:  generate more  drama. 

                                      KENJI
                    How do we go forward with the ship s 
                    physician fighting this kind of illness?

                                      JOHNSON
                    If he s willing, I m willing.  I vote 
                    go.

                                      VAL
                    This is serious business.  I want more 
                    information.

                                      ALICE
                    Are we all getting a vote?

                                      PIKE
                    No one s voting.  This isn t a 
                    democracy.  I ll make the final 
                    decision, after hearing the doctor s 
                    personal and medical assessment.  Nor is 
                    anyone else going to be briefing Mission 
                    Control or the Consortium about this 
                    situation -- got that, Roger?                                                                                    26.


    Fallon makes a gesture of acquiescence, but rather than 
    settling things for the others, Pike s statement just prompts 
    another round of heated overlapping exchanges --

                      ALICEJULES
    How is that fair?  I mean There s a chain of command --
    we re allin this together, 
    aren t we?

    EXT. SPACE - THE PHAETON

    Cruising through space.

    EXT. BEACH HOUSE - NIGHT (V.R.)

    A man in a bathrobe stands on a balcony looking out as gentle 
    waves roll in, silvered by a nearly full moon.  It s Pike.  
    Again the scene presents itself with a hyper-real palette, as 
    if filtered by the romanticized lens of a Hollywood melodrama.

    A woman s arms slips around his waist.  He looks back to see 
    Rika, also in a robe.  She rests his head on his shoulder.

                                      PIKE
                    It s always so... restful out here.

                                      RIKA
                    Not always.  There are windy nights.  
                    Storms, even.  The last one almost took 
                    out the supports under this balcony.

    When Pike turns to look back at her, puzzled...

                                        RIKA(cont d)
                    I wanted it to be as real as possible.  
                    Though sometimes I think the program 
                    picks up on my own moods.  Tonight -- I 
                    guess I m in a romantic mood.  

                                      PIKE
                    I guess so.

                                      RIKA
                     Course we could meet at your place 
                    instead of mine.

                                      PIKE
                          (preoccupied)
                    I don t think you d like my place.

                                      RIKA
                    Why?  They don t have beds there?                                                                                    27.


                                      PIKE
                    Not really.

                                      RIKA
                    You know, a less secure woman might take 
                    it personally when she breaks the rules, 
                    invites a man to share the only private 
                    space she ll to have for the next 
                    decade, and can t get him to share his 
                    space in return. 

                                      PIKE
                    Good thing you re more secure than that.
                          (beat)
                    It s not something I... can share.  My 
                    module isn t as... relaxing as all this.  
                    More like something I m trying to sort 
                    out on my own.

                                      RIKA
                    Finding more problems to solve?  Don t 
                    you have enough of those in the real 
                    world, especially now?
                          (a beat, then)
                    Can t you let go of all that?  Just for 
                    now... just for this time we have 
                    together? 

    She takes his hand and, after a last look at the ocean, Pike 
    lets her lead him back into the dark house.

    INT. BEACH HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

    Sometime later, Pike and Rika lying in each other s arms, post-
    coital.

                                      MAN S VOICE
                    Hey, Colonel, remember me?

    They both sit up suddenly --

    ANGLE - THE GREEN EYED MAN

    Now sitting in a chair on the other side of the room and 
    dressed in sleek, contemporary clothes.

                                      PIKE
                    Jesus!

                                      RIKA
                    Where d he come from?                                                                                      28.


                                      PIKE
                            (recognizing him)
                    Wait a minute -- he s from my module.

                                      RIKA
                    Yours?  Youbrought him over here?

                                      PIKE
                    I don t even know how to do that.

                                      MAN
                    No one brought me over, Frank.  But I am 
                    here.

    He suddenly produces a GUN, a modern automatic.

                                      MAN(cont d)
                    And I told you before, you re not 
                    fooling anyone.

    The barrel of the gun spits fire --

    INT. PIKE S QUARTERS

    The SOUND of the gunshot still seeming to echo as Pike's eyes 
    jerk open again, only this time he finds himself alone again 
    in his bunk on the Phaeton, breathing hard.

    INT. RIKA & FALLON S QUARTERS

    A frightened Rika's eyes pop open as a man's hand, wearing a 
    wedding ring, gently removes the V.R. headset that she's been 
    wearing.  It's Fallon, lying beside her in bed, having just 
    switched on a bedside light.   She, too, is breathing hard.

                                      FALLON
                    You re white as a sheet, baby.  I warned 
                    you about bringing these things to bed.

    It takes her a second to adjust to the here and now.

                                      RIKA
                    Yeah... gave me a... bad dream...

                                      FALLON
                    You want to talk about it?

                                      RIKA
                    No.  I m okay.  Let s just go to sleep.

    She turns away from him, pulls up the covers.                                                                                    29.


    Fallon eyes his wife s back for a beat, his thoughtful 
    expression edging into something else.  Then he turns off the 
    light, plunging us into DARKNESS.


                                      END ACT TWO                                                                                    30.


                                      ACT THREE

    CLOSE ON - A CANVAS ON AN EASEL

    An off-screen painter is making adjustments to a striking 
    vista of craggy mountain peaks and forested hillsides, as seen 
    from a lush valley.  REVEAL the painter to be Meyer.  We re:

    EXT. WILDERNESS VALLEY - DAY (V.R.)

    The same setting depicted in the painting.  No sound other 
    than the sighing of the wind, the occasional buzzing of an 
    insect.  Meyer seems at ease here as he uses a fine brush to 
    add some evergreens to a mountainside, then looks up as the 
    same trees now appear on the actual mountainside.  He's 
    literally creating this setting with his brush, like some sort 
    of existential landscape designer.

                                      JEAN/A.I.
                    Pardon the interruption, Doctor Meyer.

                                      MEYER
                    Yes, Jean?

                                      JEAN/A.I.
                    Doctor Fallon is with you and would like 
                    a word.  

    Meyer takes a deep breath, drinking in the scene, then reaches 
    up to his temple --

    INT. SICKBAY

    -- where Meyer REMOVES his HEADSET.  Fallon is here, sitting 
    calmly nearby and leafing through a BOOK.

                                      FALLON
                          (without apology)
                    Thought we should have a little chat.

                                      MEYER
                    Isn t the patient supposed to seekhelp 
                    when he s ready for it? 

                                      FALLON
                    Sometimes.
                          (re: book)
                    Ninety-two weeks on the New York Times 
                    best selling EST list.

    He lifts the book and now we can see the cover features a 
    picture of a smiling Fallon in a space suit and the title:  
     Lessons from the Void:  Discovering Your Authentic Self.                                                                                     31.


                                      MEYER
                    That a record?

    Fallon registers the sardonic note but shrugs it off easily, 
    half smiling as he flips through the book.

                                      FALLON
                    Nah.  The bible s longer.  

                                      MEYER
                    Must ve been tough leaving all that 
                    acclaim behind.

                                      FALLON
                    Fame never really appealed to me.  The 
                    work s always been the priority.  Still 
                    is.  I thought you might want to talk --

                                      MEYER
                          (waves toward ceiling)
                    And the cameras?  

                                      FALLON
                    This is a therapeutic visit.  These 
                      conversations are unrecorded and contain 
                    privileged information, not for 
                    broadcast -- it s all in the contracts 
                    you signed at the outset.  Jean could 
                    provide you with a copy --

                                      MEYER
                    That won t be necessary.

    Fallon studies a couple of realistic oil PAINTINGS of bucolic 
    LANDSCAPES.  

                                      FALLON
                    Billie said you d taken up painting.  
                    From the level of technique I d say it s 
                    more like revisiting painting.

    Meyer can t help glancing over protectively, as if there s 
    something about the paintings he wants to guard.

                                      MEYER
                    Something I used to do.

                                      FALLON
                    And now you just happen to be doing it 
                    again.  At the same time you re 
                    diagnosed with a serious illness.                                                                                    32.


                                      MEYER
                    Yes.  I m sure there s a connection.  
                    But I don t know what it is as of yet.  
                    I should think about it and then come 
                    talk to you about it when I m ready.

    Fallon eyes him evenly.  Meyer knows just how to deflect 
    Fallon as one doctor to another and Fallon knows he knows.  On 
    top of that, the two men don t really like each other.

                                      FALLON
                    Making your own diagnosis must have been 
                      a wrenching experience.  How did it feel 
                    when it happened?

                                      MEYER
                    I m still processing my feelings.

                                      FALLON
                    I see.  
                          (beat)
                    You know, my father was diagnosed with 
                    terminal cancer when he was in his 70s.  
                    Doctors gave him six months.  He lived 
                    into his 90s, then died crossing the 
                    street.

                                      MEYER
                     Life is unpredictable. 

    Fallon picks an AMPOULE of medicine off a counter.

                                      FALLON
                    Ever notice how the language of western 
                    medicine is so militant?  We  attack  
                    infections with  targeted drugs ... 
                    deploy  aggressive treatment strategies  
                    to combat  invasive tumors.   It's like 
                    we re marshalling our rhetoric to 
                    maintain the illusion of control when 
                    the truth is, we don t know with 
                    certainty what s going to happen 
                    tomorrow, never mind ten years from now.

    Somehow, there s an ominous note to this otherwise innocuous 
    idea and Meyer finds himself slightly uncomfortable.  Fallon 
    starts to leave, then pauses to eye the paintings again.

                                        FALLON(cont d)
                      Personally, I always favored the 
                      Impressionist approach:  re-creating the 
                    sensation rather than the subject.
                          (beat)
                                      (MORE)                                                                                    33.

                                      FALLON (cont d)
                    Reality, after all, is a relative 
                    concept.

    He exits.  OFF Meyer, who seems disturbed by the visit...

    INT. GREENHOUSE - SURVEILLANCE CAMERA ANGLE

    From OVERHEAD, we see Rika showing Pike a piece of dead, 
    rotted root from one of the hydroponic beds.

                                      RIKA
                    ... problem s the lack of biological 
                    protection in the root zone.  I think I 
                    can control it by introducing some 
                    protective microbes into the solution.

                                      PIKE
                    Good.  Last thing we need is a threat to 
                    our fresh food and oxygen supply.

                                      RIKA
                    Exactly.  Let me show you the test beds 
                    I ve been working on...

    She leads him OUT OF FRAME.

    ANGLE - RIKA & PIKE

    Deliberately moving out of range of the camera.  Rika glances 
    back to make sure they re out of its line of sight.  Quietly:

                                        RIKA(cont d)
                    So, what happened last night?  Who was 
                    that character and why would he do that?

                                      PIKE
                    I have no idea.

                                      RIKA
                    Well, who is he in your program?

                                      PIKE
                    I don t know.  He s not someone I 
                    created.

                                      RIKA
                    What?  You mean he s computer-generated?

                                      PIKE
                    I guess.  Virtual software isn t really 
                    my field.  I didn t think any of us 
                    could get into someone else s module 
                    without an invitation and an access 
                    code.                                                                                    34.


                                      RIKA
                    And I gather you didn t extend my 
                    invitation to your little friend?

                                      PIKE
                    So he could execute us in the sack?  I m 
                    not that kinky.

                                      RIKA
                    You have your moments.  Well, the 
                    computer didn t just do that on its own.  
                    Someonehad to make a file transfer.
                          (beat, then worried)
                    You know, it s exactlythe kind of stunt 
                    Roger would pull if he knew I was 
                    cheating on him -- 

                                      PIKE
                    Ho-ho-ho.  Wait a minute.  No one s 
                    cheating on anyone here.  I haven t so 
                    much as laid a hand on you.  This is all 
                    just some harmless fantasy.

                                      RIKA
                    Really?  Then you wouldn t mind if I 
                    told my husband would you?

    From his expression, it s clear Pike would mind very much.

                                      PIKE
                    Okay.  Fine.  But he s not a software 
                    expert either, he s a therapist.  He 
                    doesn t have the skills to pull off 
                    something like this.

                                      RIKA
                    Then someone else is screwing with us.  
                    Someone in the crew.

                                      PIKE
                    Whoever they are, they picked a fine 
                    time to start playing games.

                                      RIKA
                    Right.  God -- I m sorry I m even 
                    bringing this up.  Are you okay?  Have 
                    you told Mission Control yet?  Are we 
                    going home?

                                      PIKE
                    Yes, no and I don t know.

                                      RIKA
                    They ll scrub if you tell them, right?                                                                                    35.


                                      PIKE
                    Ship s medical officer gets potentially 
                    fatal disease?  Scrub.  No question.   

    A quiet beat.

                                      RIKA
                    You really wanna put the whole decision 
                    on your shoulders?

                                      PIKE
                    Well... that s why they pay me the big 
                    virtual bucks.  
                          (beat)
                    We go home, there s not another shot at 
                    this for twenty years.  Twenty years the 
                    way things are going back there...?  

    He just shakes his head.  She kisses him gently.

                                      RIKA
                    You ll make the right call.  You always 
                    do.

    INT. CORRIDOR

    Jules walks along speaking into a small recording device.

                                      JULES
                    Dear Shawn... a lot s happened since my 
                    last letter.  We ve had some bad news -- 
                    our ship s doctor is ill.  It may 
                    threaten the mission.  We all worked so 
                    hard for this... competedso hard to be 
                    a part of it... you d think that dbe 
                    the only thing on our minds right now.  
                    But after six months in a metal tube, 
                    you can lose track of your priorities.  
                    The tedium gets to you... the artificial 
                    days... and sometimes instead of facing 
                    the real problems, you focus on other 
                    things... thingsthat just make you 
                    crazier.

    As he now opens the hatch to the --

    INT. GALLEY/MESS

    JOHNSON pops an M.R.E.-style dinner in a brown plastic pouch 
    into a microwave, as Manny, tossing a pasta salad, reacts.

                                      MANNY
                    I just spent two hours making dinner and 
                    you re eating that crap again?                                                                                    36.


                                      JOHNSON
                    Sorry.

    Manny sighs, as we find Sue grabbing a bowl of food from Val 
    while Jules waits his turn, then angrily trailing Billie back 
    to the table, where Alice and Kenji are already seated.

                                      SUE
                    Hey -- are you listening?  This guy 
                    paddles into the line-up, waves like I m 
                    his bud, then cuts me off on a wave.  
                    Next thing I know I'm sucking water 
                    while I get drilled into the reef.  By 
                    the time I managed to rip off my 
                    headset, it felt like I had really 
                    bought it!

                                      BILLIE
                    You should reset the parameters to no-
                    generated character interaction.

                                      SUE
                          (duh)
                    Really?  I never thought of that.  I 
                    programmed it for a mellow break.  
                    Mellow.  Peaceful.  Someonehacked my 
                    module.

    Billie suddenly gets her drift.

                                      BILLIE
                    You re looking at me?

                                      SUE
                    You re the computer chick.

                                      BILLIE
                    I didn t touch your module.

                                      SUE
                    Really?  Sure you didn t think that 
                      programming a little  danger  wouldn t 
                    make for a better show now that you re 
                    the new host?

                                      BILLIE
                    Is that what this is about?

    She looks around, the others are listening.

                                        BILLIE(cont d)
                    That what everyone thinks?  That I d 
                    start using your private modules for the 
                    show just to get ratings?                                                                                    37.


                                      SUE
                    Sure aren t going to get them on your 
                    looks.

    Billie STORMS OUT.

                                      ALICE
                    Sue!

                                      SUE
                    I m sorry, but I know a computer hack 
                    when I see one and that guy with the 
                    freaky green eyes was hack a mile away.

                                      ALICE
                    That doesn t mean Sue had anything to--

                                      SUE
                    Don t you get on your high horse --

                                      JULES
                    Hey, I m eating here.

    Johnson wheels over with his nuked meal -- a burger and fries.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Shut-up, man.  On the verge of watching 
                    a good old-fashioned cat-fight here.

                                      ALICE
                    Jesus.

    Alice heads for the door.  Kenji follows.

                                        ALICE(cont d)
                    I m okay...

                                      KENJI
                    I know...

                                      ALICE
                    No.  Really.  Just... you know.  
                      Everything.  Need a little time alone.

                                      KENJI
                    Sure.

    He tries to hide it, but there s a hint of hurt in his voice.  
    She kisses him.

                                      ALICE
                          (sotto)
                    And tonight... maybe we can try the 
                    core.                                                                                    38.


    Kenji grins broadly.  She smiles, then EXITS, hiding her 
    ambivalent look from him...

    INT. DOCTOR S OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY (V.R.)

    INSERT - a woman writes her name on a patient sign-in sheet:  
     Alice Thibadeau.   CUT TO:

    ALICE, as she takes a seat in the waiting room, one of those 
    blandly benign spaces that resist the passage of time.  The 
    only other patient, a PREGNANT WOMAN, smiles at her then goes 
    back to her knitting as Alice picks up a magazine-sized 
    reading slate from a stack on an end table.

    The slate activates at her touch and presents an opening menu 
    with various media options:  Time, Newsweek, Golf Digest, etc.  
    Alice taps the button for  Time  and the screen displays a 
    dramatic cover photo of a blazing wild fire with the headline:  
    The Wildfire Threat:  Can It Be Contained? 

                                      PREGNANT WOMAN (O.S.)
                    Eight weeks?

                                      ALICE
                          (caught off-guard)
                    I m sorry...?

                                      PREGNANT WOMAN
                    You re juststarting to show, so I m 
                      guessing... eight weeks?

                                      ALICE
                    Yes.  Eight.

    Alice reflexively touches her belly. 

                                      PREGNANT WOMAN
                    You won t feel anything yet hon, but 
                    they will be able show you the 
                    heartbeat.  That s when it really hits 
                    you... the reality of it.  At least 
                    that s how it was with me.

                                      ALICE
                    It isreal, isn t it?  It feelsreal.

    The other woman nods understandingly.

                                      PREGNANT WOMAN
                    As real as you are.

    She goes back to her knitting.  Off Alice, who seems anything 
    but at ease, buffeted by new thoughts and sensations.                                                                                    39.


    EXT. WILDERNESS VALLEY - DAY (V.R.)

    Meyer is continuing to paint both on the canvas and the larger 
    canvas of the wilderness.  Then his right hand SHAKES 
    slightly, marring his brushstroke, and he watches with disgust 
    as an ugly SLASHAPPEARSon the MOUNTAINSIDE.  Reaching for a 
    palette knife to scrape away the mistake, his eye is caught by 
    a GLINT OF LIGHT atop a distant ridge.  It seems to wink at 
    him.  Picking up a pair of BINOCULARS, he scans the ridge -- 
    and is stunned to find a lone FIGURE looking down at him, 
    using a small mirror to flash sunlight at him.

                                      MEYER
                    Jean, identify the human figure in my 
                    landscape.

                                      JEAN
                    I'm sorry, Doctor Meyer, but there is no 
                    other human figure.

                                      MEYER
                    I m looking right at him.

    And off his mounting puzzlement and irritation...

    INT. DOCTOR S OFFICE - EXAMINING ROOM - DAY (V.R.)

    Alice sits atop an examining table, naked from the waist down 
    under a disposable patient gown.  The papery material rustles 
    a she shifts uncomfortably, feeling very exposed.  A sonogram 
    machine reposes in a corner.  Then the DOORstarts to OPENand 
    we go TIGHT ON ALICE, her face brightening at the sight of --

                                      DOCTOR (O.S.)
                    Mrs. Thibadeau, good to see you again.

    EXT. ROCKY OUTCROPPING - DAY (V.R.)

    Breathing heavily, Meyer scrambles up to the top of a rocky 
    ridge, only to find it empty.  Exhausted, he walks to the 
    other side where he peers over the edge of a SHEER DROP.  

    He never even sees the green-eyed manbefore he PUSHES HIM 
    OVER THE EDGE.  Meyer flails... the ground rushes up... at the 
    moment of impact --

    INT. SICKBAY

    The doctor jerks upright in his chair, yanking off his V.R. 
    headset as he does so.  He s sweating and breathing hard, and 
    his right hand is TREMBLING again.  But as he puts his other 
    hand over it to steady it, and gradually controls his 
    breathing, he starts to CHUCKLE.  Then LAUGH.  The adrenaline 
    rush of the fall leaving him exhilarated and almost giddy.                                                                                      40.


                                      MEYER
                    Oh my god... whoo-oooo!  Jeez-
                      louise....!

    As he sits there laughing to himself...

    INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - LATER

    Neptune now looming larger in the window.  Meyer is addressing 
    the crew, Pike standing near him, Billie filming again.  Meyer 
    seems decidedly less somber and grim than before, a lightness 
    to his whole being.

                                      MEYER
                    ... and Rika thinks we can extract 
                    enough levodopa from the plants onboard 
                    to provide an adequate supply for the 
                    rest of the mission.  That should keep 
                    some of the more severe symptoms in 
                    check.
                          (beat)
                    If not, Dr. Fallon is also a licensed 
                    physician, and several of you have medic 
                    cross-training.  One way or another, I m 
                    confident you ll manage.  

                                      JOHNSON
                    I m glad you reconfident.  Question is, 
                    just how confident should that make us?

    Pike looks like he s about to intervene, but Meyer indicates 
    that he wants to answer.  He turns back to Johnson, but he s 
    not just speaking to him, he s speaking to all of them.

                                      MEYER
                    I ve been feeling off... wrong... for a 
                    while now.  At first I thought it was 
                    the illness.  But now I know it wasn t. 
                    I was struggling with... letting go.  Of 
                    Earth.  Of my family.  Of everything 
                    that had defined my life up to now.
                          (beat)
                    I was afraid, and that fear made me feel 
                    hollow inside.  But today I had this... 
                    experience in my virtmodule.  Kind of a 
                    glitch, actually...

                                      SUE
                          (shoots Billie dirty look)
                    Lotta that going around.

                                      MEYER
                    Whatever it was, it suddenly forcedme 
                    to let go -- quite literally.  
                                      (MORE)                                                                                    41.

                                      MEYER (cont'd)
                    It was terrifying, but then... freeing.  
                      Exhilarating.  I felt... alive.

    In the back of the room, Fallon leans over to Billie.

                                      FALLON
                          (sotto)
                    Stay with him.  Give me a nice big close-
                    up here.  This is gold.

                                      MEYER
                    My illness may or may not prove 
                      manageable.  But as one of you said the 
                    other day, we re all at risk out here.  
                    And the biggest risk, in my opinion, is 
                    not achieving what we ve already trained 
                    and sacrificed so much for.  I want to 
                    live.  And I want to live on my terms, 
                    doing what Iwant to do.
                          (beat)
                    I want to see Eridani.

    He looks to Pike, who eyes him for a beat before turning to 
    the others.

                                      PIKE
                    I ve already made up my mind.  But this 
                    affects all of us... and everyone we 
                    left behind.  So I ve decided to make 
                    this a democracy after all.
                          (beat)
                    I want a go/no-go decision from 
                    everyone.  Right now.  Standard mission 
                    rules are in effect:  one no-go and 
                    that s it.

    Looks are exchanged around the room, but no one speaks.

                                        PIKE(cont d)
                    Rika?

    She returns his look, trying to keep hers impersonal...

                                      RIKA
                    Go.

    But Fallon eyes both of them for a beat -- and is it possible 
    he doesknow about them? -- as the vote meanwhile continues 
    around the room, with Kenji now announcing confidently --

                                      KENJI
                    Go.

    Then Alice, trying to sound just as sure as her husband...                                                                                    42.


                                      ALICE
                    Yes.  Go.

                                      MANNY
                          (squeezes Val s hand)
                    Go.

                                      VAL
                          (returns the squeeze)
                    Good to go.

    Billie lowers her camera, at once tentative and excited...

                                      BILLIE
                    Go.

                                      JULES
                    Go.

    Fallon s turn.  With a look at Meyer...

                                      FALLON
                    Go.

    Johnson s turn.  No snark in his voice now.  Serious.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Go.

    And finally an impatient --

                                      SUE
                    Damn straight.  Let s light this candle 
                    already.

                                      PIKE
                    Then I ll make it unanimous.  It s  go. 

    A beat as the decision sinks in.  Then:

                                        PIKE(cont d)
                    All right.  Full systems check at oh-
                      nine-hundred, followed by a launch 
                    sequence rehearsal.  Dismissed.

    The crew moves out.  Last to leave, Pike pauses to look out 
    the window at the planet hanging in the dark, then reaches out 
    and touches the glass.  Finally, he exits, too, as we...

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                    END ACT THREE                                                                                    43.


                                        ACT FOUR

    FADE IN:

    EXT. SPACE - NEPTUNE 

    Starting close on the curving blue edge of the gas giant, then 
    pulling back rapidly through high atmosphere tendrils of 
    frozen methane, then Saturn-like rings of dust particles, 
    until the side of the moon Triton shoulders into frame -- 
    dwarfing the tiny form of Phaeton, now speeding past it.

                                      BILLIE (PRELAP)
                    This is it, ladies and gentlemen:  the 
                    moment of truth.  We re about to launch 
                    ourselves into the abyss of deep space 
                    for the first time...

    INT. EDIT BAY/INT. CORE - INTERCUT

    Fallon now watching Billie on a monitor as she FLOATS
    WEIGHTLESSin the CORE -- a large, cylindrical space, with 
    curving walls honeycombed with receptacles where dozens of 
      matter-antimatter WARHEADS( pulse charges ) are housed behind 
    HEXAGONAL HATCHES.  A ROBOTIC ARM is loading one of the barrel-
    like warheads into a delivery tube leading to the stern.

    Billie talks to the camera while JOHNSON FLOATSbeside her, 
    looking annoyed as he tries to do his job manipulating the 
    robotic arm.

                                      BILLIE
                    I m in the Core, surrounded by sixty 
                      matter/anti-matter warheads -- more 
                      destructive firepower than the combined 
                    nuclear arsenals of the U.S. and Soviet 
                    Union at the height of the Cold War.  
                    But these instruments of death serve a 
                    benign function here on Phaeton, as our 
                    resident physicist, Dr. Johnson, is 
                    about to explain.  Jimmy, can you 
                    simplify it for our viewers?

    Johnson doesn t even look at her, gives her the most corn-pone 
    voice he can summon.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Sure, Billie-girl.  Basically, we re 
                    gonna blow us up a bunch of big-ass 
                    bombs off the ass-end of this ship.  
                                      (MORE)                                                                                    44.

                                      JOHNSON (cont'd)
                    Those big-ass bombs gonna vaporize some 
                    big-ass alloy plates, and the 
                      translation of all that big-ass mass 
                    into big-ass energy, per Einstein -- 
                    ya ll remember him, right?  Old dude 
                    with the crazy hair -- is gonna make us 
                    go real fast.  Like yippee-kay-yah, 
                    mother-fu --

                                      BILLIE
                    All right.  Thanks Jimmy.  Thanks...

    Back in Editing, Fallon just shakes his head, taking this in 
    stride.  He s already called up a simplified Fischer Price-
    style ANIMATED GRAPHIC of the process on another screen as --

                                      BILLIE (ON MONITOR) (cont d)
                          (to camera)
                    ... And thanks to this week s sponsor:  
                    Patagonia, the last word in extreme 
                    wear.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Enough.  Get yourself strapped in.  
                    We re getting close to show-time.

    As Billie floats away, Fallon straps himself into his chair 
    even as he calls up some other footage in the editing bay, 
    showing an earlier interview with Jules, along with another 
    ANIMATED GRAPHIC showing Phaeton s slingshot course.

                                      JULES
                    -- once we pass go/no-go, that s when we 
                    engage the Orion drive for the first 
                      time...It s the first large-scale 
                      application of this technology...

                                      PIKE (RADIO)
                    This is the flight deck.  All personnel 
                    assume stations for the burn.

    INT. FLIGHT DECK

    Pike, Jules and Sue strapped into the forward pilot s, 
    navigator s and engineer s seats, respectively.  The rest of 
    the crew -- except for Johnson and Fallon -- are strapped into 
    seats at various stations around the room:  more like a mini-
    Mission Control than a Star Trek bridge.  All wear com 
    headsets.  

                                      SUE
                    I m good here, skipper.                                                                                    45.


                                      PIKE
                    Very well.

                                      SUE
                          (sotto)
                    You hear back from Mission Control about 
                    Meyer and our  go  vote?

                                      PIKE
                    Nope.  Course I didn t send the message 
                    until about ten minutes ago, which they 
                    won t get it for another ninety minutes 
                    so we re looking at probably another two 
                    hours for a response.  

                                      SUE
                          (grins)
                    Guess they ll have to grin and bear it.

                                      PIKE
                    Guess so.
                          (to headset)
                    This is the flight deck.  Initiating de-
                    spin.  Stand by for zero-g.

    EXT. SPACE - THE PHAETON

    The revolving modules slowly stop spinning, the ship no longer 
    a spiraling bullet but an arrow aimed at Neptune s heart.

    INT. FLIGHT DECK

    Alice s stylus starts to float away.  Kenji reaches out and 
    grabs it, hands it back to her... while up front --

                                      SUE
                    Distance now at 100,000 clicks.  Speed 
                    increasing to thirty clicks a second.

                                      PIKE
                    NAV, how s our aim?

                                      JULES
                    We re three milliarcseconds off in the B-
                    plane.  RCS thrusters auto-firing to 
                      compensate.

    EXT. SPACE

    Small thrusters on Phaeton s hull fire, nudging the ship 
    slightly closer to the approaching outer curve of the planet.                                                                                    46.


    INT. FLIGHT DECK

                                      SUE
                    Back in the pipe, five by five.  Ready 
                    for slingshot.

                                      PIKE
                    Initiate.

    EXT. SPACE

    A spectacular shot as Phaeton threads Neptune s rings -- small 
    ice particles obliterating themselves as they smash off the 
    ship s armored prow -- then skims over its blue atmosphere.

    INT. FLIGHT DECK

    A jazzed Fallon pops up on Pike s screen.

                                      FALLON (MONITOR)
                    Getting some amazing stuff here, guys. 

                                      PIKE
                    Happy for you, Rog, but we re a little 
                    busy here.  Nav, status?

                                      JULES
                    Perfect burn...

    EXT. SPACE

    Phaeton now veers away from Neptune, heading into deep space.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    Slingshot complete.

    INT. CORE

    Where Johnson works his console while Pike turns to him in a  
    window on his screen.

                                      PIKE (MONITOR)
                    Your show, Jimmy.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Hope no one had a big lunch  cause the  
                    ride s about to get bumpy.  Deploying 
                    first charge.

    INT. DEPLOYMENT TUBE

    The barrel-like charge is propelled down the tube, and into...                                                                                    47.


    EXT. SPACE

    ...directly behind Phaeton s massive aft  pusher plate.   At a 
    distance of 60 meters, it detonates -- the soundless EXPLOSION 
    creating a cigar-shaped wave of plasma debris which IMPACTS...

    ...the PUSHER PLATE, partially VAPORIZING the surface of the 
    giant disk, the vaporized atoms now providing an equivalent 
    amount of reactive thrust.

    The massive SHOCK ABSORBERS connecting the plates to the hull 
    COMPRESS, partially absorbing the explosive jolt, and...

    PHAETON leaps forward.

    INT. FLIGHT DECK

    The crew is pressed back in their seats by the intense g 
    forces, which gradually abate.  Jules checks his screen.

                                      JULES
                    On course.  Speed nineteen point two 
                    million meters per second -- roughly one-
                    fifteenth light speed

    On Pike s screen, Johnson grins.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Ready for another?

                                      PIKE
                    Hit me.

    A moment later, there s another huge JOLT.  OFF Pike s face, 
    as it s plastered back against his headrest...

                                                                      TIME CUT TO:

    INT. FLIGHT DECK

    Empty.  Lights blinking on various unattended consoles, 
    suggesting the ship is once again under automated control.

                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                          (dictating)
                    As I observed in Chapter 5, long-
                    duration space missions present a 
                      psychological challenge for maintaining 
                    crew motivation, morale and individual 
                      well-being.                                                                                    48.


    INT. CORRIDOR

    A Roomba-like vacuum skitters along the otherwise empty 
    corridor.

                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    Up to now, empirical knowledge of 
                    relevant psychological issues has been 
                    based on missions of up to one year.

    INT. GALLEY/MESS

    Empty as well.  In the Galley, an unattended COFFEE MAKER 
    drips coffee into an already full pot, while in the adjoining 
    Mess, a DRINKING BIRD metronomically dips his bill into a 
    glass of water -- the two devices creating a minimalist duet.

                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    However, the extended duration of the 
                    Eridani mission presents unique issues 
                    as well as promising opportunities for 
                    further study.

    INT. CORE

    Johnson FLOATS on his back in zero g, wearing a V.R. headset 
    and an expression at once relaxed and intent.

                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    The re-purposing of virtual reality 
                    technology -- originally designed to 
                    maintain mission-critical skills -- as a 
                    recreational tool is one new feature...

    INT. GYM

    A small space, with aerobic machines and a compact resistance 
    setup.  Sue is on a rower, eyes closed, V.R. headset on.

                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    ...that is already showing promise as a 
                    means of ameliorating crew tensions and 
                    enhancing morale.

    Sue pulls the machine s handles toward her, as we MATCH TO:

    EXT. RIVER DAY - DAY  - AN OAR BLADE (V.R.)

    emerges from the water at the end of a stroke.  Revealing Sue 
    in a SINGLE SCULL, taking her exercise in its intended natural 
    environment, thanks to the V.R. program.                                                                                    49.


                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    Of course, as with any new therapeutic 
                    methodology, there are variables and 
                    unknowns.

    INT. JULES  QUARTERS

    Jules works on a slate, computing trajectories and speeds.  
    Tired, he rubs his eyes, then turns to look at a PHOTO of 
    himself posed with an attractive woman and a young boy.

                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    Among them, conflicts between clients  
                    expectations and the still-unknown 
                    limits of the technology...

    And as Jules  gaze is drawn to a V.R. headset on his bunk...

    INT. EDIT BAY

    Where Fallon is dictating into his slate, the text appearing 
    as he speaks.

                                      FALLON
                    ...as well as problems that cannot be 
                      anticipated due to the unique fusion the 
                    technology enables between heuristic 
                    computer systems and their biological 
                    model...

    EXT. SUBURBAN HOME - NIGHT (V.R.)

    In a driving RAINSTORM, a man pulls a hybrid car into the 
    driveway of a modest suburban home and parks.

                                      FALLON (V.O.)
                    ...the human mind.

    INT. CAR - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

    JULESkills the engine, then looks at the PORCH LIGHT burning 
    in the rain -- and smiles.  Home.

    INT. RANCH HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT - SOMEONE S P.O.V.

    The woman in the photo -- Jules  wife, ROXANNE -- sits at a 
    table paying bills while glancing at a small flat-screen TV, 
    where an internet weather channel is airing flood reports.

    Revealing Jules watching her silently from the doorway, a 
    wistful expression on his face.  A beat, then she notices him.                                                                                    50.


                                      ROXANNE
                    There you are.  I told Shawn to go to 
                    bed an hour ago, but he s still waiting 
                    up for you.  
                          (an old story)
                    Wants to see the latest blueprints.

                                      JULES
                    Then I better not keep him waiting.

    But he doesn t move just yet.  A beat, then she looks up from 
    the bills again with a puzzled expression.

                                      ROXANNE
                    What?

                                      JULES
                    Just looking.

    She smiles fondly as she turns back to the bills.

    INT. BOY S BEDROOM - NIGHT (V.R.)

    A set of technical drawings and artist s renderings are open 
    on the bed, SHAWN, 8, hungrily poring over them as his father 
    sits beside him.  A TELESCOPE is set up by a window.  The boy 
    points to the pusher plate and shock absorber assembly at the 
    stern of the ship.

                                      SHAWN
                    That s the... Oreliondrive, right?  

                                      JULES
                    Orion.  It s named after the first 
                    design for a space ship with nuclear 
                    pulse propulsion, almost a century ago.

                                      SHAWN
                      A century...? That s a hundred years?

                                      JULES
                    Right.  Sometimes it takes a long time 
                    for an idea to become a reality.

                                      SHAWN
                    Don t you wish you were going?

                                      JULES
                    I m a a scientist, not an astronaut.

                                      SHAWN
                    But you designed it, Dad.                                                                                    51.


                                      JULES
                    That private Consortium I told you about 
                    -- they re already assembling a top-
                    notch crew and... Jean, freeze program.

    The program FREEZES around him as he stands, frustrated.

                                      JEAN
                    Is there a problem, Mister Braun?

                                      JULES
                    This isn t my son.  He s generic.  Could 
                    be anybody s son.  

                                      JEAN
                    The program extrapolates as best it can 
                    based on the data available to it:  
                    public records, school reports, your own 
                    requests and instructions --

                                      JULES
                    Forget all that crap!

    He considers for a beat, then:

                                        JULES(cont d)
                    Access me.

                                      JEAN
                    You, Mr. Braun?

                                      JULES
                    Yes.  Use my psych records, my 
                    evaluations, my family histories and all 
                    other data available to build a more 
                    realistic version of these characters... 
                    then... then tap into the neural 
                    interface and use real-time biofeedback 
                    from my cognitive responses to shape the 
                    characters -- help me find out what 
                    they d reallybe like, Jean.

    There s a beat -- the entire room SHIVERS -- and then the 
    scene RESUMES.  The boy, Shawn, is still looking over the 
    plans but now he s silent.  Jules sits back down beside him.

                                        JULES(cont d)
                    Shawn...?
                          (when the boy doesn t 
                            respond)
                    Son... are you all right?

    Suddenly, the boy turns to him with a cold expression.                                                                                    52.


                                      SHAWN
                    Why do you come home every night now 
                    when you never used to before?

                                      JULES
                    What?

                                      SHAWN
                    Why do you come home every night now 
                    when you never used to before...
                          (beat)
                    ...before we died?

    And as Jules stands, stunned by the chilling accusation... and 
    the understanding that it s coming from... himself...

    EXT. URBAN PARKING GARAGE - ROOF - NIGHT (V.R.)

    A MANruns across the garage roof, a search light from a 
    HELICOPTER dogging his racing footsteps.  A cable dangles from 
    the helicopter, and clinging to the end of the cable...

    ...BILLIE, in the guise of rocker/super spy  Nikki Stardust  
    is chasing after  LAZARUS.   As the chopper dips low, she 
    drops from the cable, hits the roof and rolls, and is up and 
    running without missing a beat.

    At the edge of the roof, the man leaps up onto the hood of a 
    parked car, and then to the roof s parapet, launching himself 
    across a ten-foot gap to an adjoining rooftop.

    A moment later, Billie follows without hesitation.

    EXT. URBAN ROOFTOPS - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS (V.R.)

    The parkour-style chase continues with Billie and her quarry 
    leaping across the gaps between buildings and jumping to lower 
    rooftops while the helicopter keeps pace, struggling to keep 
    its searchlight on both pursuer and pursued.

    Finally, Lazarus races up a CONSTRUCTION CRANE and into the 
    open top floor of --

    INT. UNDER-CONSTRUCTION HIGH-RISE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS (V.R.)

    Billie s only a second behind him, but when she comes around 
    the corner Lazarus SURPRISES HER and COLD-COCKS her with a 
    smash to her face.  She goes down, then rolls to her feet just 
    as Lazarus steps out of the shadows and reveals himself to be 
    the green-eyed man.  Nikki can t suppress her surprise, 
    recognizing him from before.                                                                                      53.


                                      BILLIE
                    You -- one of my own roadies?  How can 
                    you be Lazarus?

                                      GREEN-EYED MAN
                            (approaching her)
                     Lazarus?   We can be whatever we want 
                    in here, right Billie?

    Warning bells start to go off for Billie.

                                      BILLIE
                     Billie?   Wait a minute.  How can you 
                    know my real name?  Jean freeze the --

    But she s let him get too close and suddenly she s KNOCKED ON 
    HER ASS by a stunning blow.  She looks up in surprise, then 
    anger, leaping up to counterattack out of instinct rather than 
    rational thought.

    The Bourne-style fight is surprisingly -- for Billie -- savage 
    and short, much of it played from Billie s POV as the green-
    eyed-man quickly gets the better of her, then KICKSher across 
    the chin when she s down, before walking a few steps away.

    A stunned and woozy Billie raises a hand to touch her bleeding 
    mouth, as her adversary pick something off the floor.  We 
    alternate now between close-ups of Billie and her POV, playing 
    the rest of this scene as if we re sharing her experience.

                                      GREEN-EYED MAN
                    Bitter, isn t it -- the taste of your 
                    own blood?  Leaves an indelible memory.  
                    I expect that s what you re experiencing 
                    now.  But this...

    He comes back to her, now carrying a roll of wire.

                                      GREEN-EYED MAN(cont d)
                    ... this should be new.

    He drags her roughly to an upright girder, then tightly wires 
    her wrists to it above her head.  Billy gasps at the pain. 

                                      BILLIE
                    Okay, that s enough.  Jean - freeze 
                    program.

    But nothing happens.  Real panic comes to Billie.

                                        BILLIE(cont d)
                    Jean!  This is a priority override!  
                    Freeze program!                                                                                    54.


                                      GREEN-EYED MAN
                    Shhh...

    He rips off her belt, gagging her with it as he wraps it 
    around the girder as well.  She (and we) can t see everything 
    he does next, but she feels his hands on her, pulling at her 
    clothes, sees them unbuckling his own belt.  She groans a 
    muffled  No!  through her gag as she struggles to free her 
    hands.  But she can t, the wire biting deeply into her wrists, 
    making them BLEED, as we CUT TO --

    INT. BILLIE S QUARTERS

    where she lies writhing on her bunk with her V.R. headset on, 
    her hands at her sides as if pinned there by invisible bonds.

    We don t need to see what is happening to her in the virtual 
    reality; we know.  But even watching her here and imagining 
    her experience is terrible.  She writhes on the bunk, eyes 
    darting, body tensing as she struggles to break a mental block 
    and free herself from a fantasy gone terribly wrong. 

    RESUME:  INT. UNDER-CONSTRUCTION HIGH-RISE - CLOSE ON

    BILLIE S FACE distorted with pain, eyes streaming tears as the 
    green-eyed man LEANS IN and whispers close in her ear --

                                      GREEN-EYED MAN
                    It s your fantasy, Billie.  Why not 
                    enjoy it?

    We push in still tighter on Billie s tortured face for a long, 
    terrible beat, until we hear him sigh. 

    Then we watch again from her slumped, tear-stained POV as he 
    picks up his coat, then walks out of frame.  A beat as we hear 
    Nikki s muffled crying, then --

    CLOSE ON Nikki's wired wrists, now slippery with blood, as she 
    finally manages to work one free, then the other...

    INT. BILLIE S QUARTERS

    as she tears off her headset, then sits up, pulling her knees 
    to her chest and pressing herself into a corner, finally free 
    to sob openly.

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                    END ACT FOUR                                                                                    55.


                                        ACT FIVE

    FADE IN:

    INT. CONFESSIONAL/FALLON S OFFICE - OVERHEAD SURVEILLANCE VIEW

    Now we re looking down on the room where the interview and 
    confessional snippets seen earlier were shot, and we realize 
    it also serves as Fallon s therapy office.  

    Billie is the couch, looking composed -- no sign of the trauma 
    we just witnessed.  Fallon sits across from her in an easy 
    chair.  Billie crosses her legs and we CUT TO --

    BILLIE - A DIFFERENT SURVEILLANCE ANGLE

    Eye-level, this time, the camera ratcheting in slightly and re-
    focusing with a whirring sound, inaudible to its subject, who 
    sits there looking calmly at --

    FALLON - ANOTHER EYE-LEVEL SURVEILLANCE ANGLE

    Who sits looking at Billie as she re-crosses her legs.  Our 
    camera angles will continue to switch, depending on who s 
    talking, as if an invisible director is recording the scene.  

    A long beat of silence.  Fallon temples his fingers.  Billie 
    brushes a lock of hair out of her face.  Finally:

                                      BILLIE
                    So my first thought was that it was a 
                    glitch of some kind.  Maybe even an 
                    Easter Egg.

                                      FALLON
                    An Easter Egg?

                                      BILLIE
                    A subroutine left behind by one of the 
                    original programmers, as a prank...
                          (off his look)
                    ...though obviously in this case it got 
                    out of hand -- probably because its code 
                    became corrupted in some way.  But that 
                    wasn t even my biggest concern.

                                      FALLON
                    No?

    Billie tucks the errant lock back behind her ear again, 
    starting to show the barest signs of being discomfited.                                                                                     56.


                                      BILLIE
                    What really worries me is that I 
                    couldn t get the program to stop.  
                    Couldn t exit the module without 
                    physically removing my headset, which... 
                    because of certain aspects of the 
                      scenario... was mentally difficult to 
                    do.  Like my motor control got screwed 
                    up or something.  Which in turn suggests 
                    there s something deeply wrong with the 
                    program ssource code...

    She pauses, waiting, perhaps, for Fallon to interrupt her or 
    comment.  When he doesn t --

                                        BILLIE(cont d)
                    I think we should take the entire 
                    program off-line -- all the virt modules 
                    -- until I can fix the problem.  I mean 
                    what if someone gets trapped in an even 
                    worse situation and struggles to get out 
                    of it like I did?  There could be -- I 
                    don t know -- synapticdamage for all I 
                    know.  

    A beat as Fallon waits to see if she s finished.  Then:

                                      FALLON
                    Of course you should do what you think 
                    best.  You re the computer expert, after 
                    all.  What I m left wondering, though, 
                    is whether you re treating this a bit 
                    too intellectually.  A computer problem 
                    to be solved -- a  glitch  as you put it 
                    -- instead of something very traumatic 
                    that happened to you personally.

                                      BILLIE
                    Well... nothinghappened to me, really.  
                    I mean physically-- in reality-- 
                    nothing happened.  If you think about 
                    it, it s really no different than a bad 
                    dream, and dreams aren t real, right?

                                      FALLON
                    On the contrary, the events they portray 
                    may not be, but the feelings dreams 
                    evoke, and the memories they leave 
                    behind, can be as real as anything in 
                    our lives.
                          (aftershe absorbs that)
                    But I m also curious why you choseto 
                    describe what happened as a dream.                                                                                    57.


                                      BILLIE
                    What do you mean?

                                      FALLON
                    Some people believe dreams are the 
                    mind s way of exploring things that 
                    would normally be suppressed in the 
                    waking world.

                                      BILLIE
                    You re talking about fantasies.  I don t 
                    have a  rape fantasy  if that s what 
                    you re getting at.

                                      FALLON
                    I m not  getting  at anything.  What I m 
                    drawing your attention to is your choice 
                    of words -- by comparing this to a 
                    dream, you re implying this was 
                    something you  dreamt up.   As if you 
                    blame yourself for what happened to 
                    you... that maybe you think you deserved 
                    it in some way.  

    And now it s Billie s turn to be silent, staring at him for a 
    moment before her eyes retreat to the floor.  The silence 
    fills the room for a long beat.  Then she abruptly gets up.

                                      BILLIE
                    It s a software bug.  And that s all it 
                    is.

    She EXITS.

    INT. BRIEFING ROOM - LATER

    Pike is addressing the ENTIRE CREW.  Billie remains silent 
    throughout, giving no indication that she knows anything more 
    than anyone else.

                                      PIKE
                    As some of you know, there have been 
                    some... anomalies cropping up in the 
                    virt modules.  Unknown characters 
                    appearing at random times and places.  
                    Up to now, I assumed these were isolated 
                    and relatively harmless incidents.  A 
                    parlour mystery at worst -- maybe even 
                    someone aboard wanting to playing hacker 
                    in their spare time.  
                          (beat)
                    No more.  An assault has occurred.  A... 
                    sexual assault.                                                                                    58.


    Shocked looks go around the room.

                                      MANNY
                    Can you be more specific?  

                                      SUE
                     Assault  against who?

                                      PIKE
                    There s a privacy issue here and I m at 
                    liberty to describe the attack in detail 
                    or who experienced it.  But I cannot 
                    imagine any member of this crew having 
                    planned or allowed something like this 
                    to happen in any way.  So in my opinion, 
                    this is not a case of malicious hacking.  
                    But that means there is a serious defect 
                    in the virt software and as a result, 
                    I m ordering the modules shut down 
                    immediately.

                                      MANNY
                    For how long?

                                      PIKE
                    Until we know for certain the problem 
                    has been identified and repaired.  I ve 
                    informed Mission Control and asked them 
                    if new software can be uploaded, but 
                    Jean tells me it s unlikely at this 
                    distance from Earth.

                                      MEYER
                    So this could be a permanent shut-down?

                                      PIKE
                    Possibly.
                          (tryingto be light)
                    I guess we ll all just have to read 
                    books.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Well... we ve all experienced computer 
                    glitches before and just to play devil s 
                    advocate here, isn t it possible we re 
                      overreacting?

    Sue, Rika, Alice and Billie all look up sharply at this -- the 
    women on the crew taking immediate umbrage --

                                      SUE
                    You heard him say  sexual assault,  
                    didn t you?                                                                                    59.


                                      JOHNSON
                    So what does that mean exactly?  There s 
                    a big difference between someone getting 
                    a pinch on the ass and being gang-raped.

                                      ALICE
                    Someone was violated.  By a computer 
                    program.  It doesn t matter what it was 
                     exactly. 

                                      JULES
                    I have to agree with Jimmy, here.  I m 
                    not trying to be insensitive or 
                    anything, but these programs are pretty 
                    much the only chance for privacy any of 
                    us have on this ship, and if all we re 
                    talking about is some computer character 
                    copping a feel --

    A chorus of outrage from the women crashes down around his 
    ears:

                      ALICESUE
    And that s all right?!What kind of thinking is 
                                                  that?!

                                      RIKA
                    One of these characters shot me, Jules -- 
                    is that bad enough for you?

    She tries hard not to look at Pike as all eyes turn to her.

                                      JOHNSON
                    People get shot in their action programs 
                    all the time.  There s no permanent 
                    damage.

                                      RIKA
                    I wasn t in an  action program.   I was 
                    relaxing in a beach house.  It was 
                    supposed to be alone.  And an intruder 
                    came into my bedroom and shot me.  In my 
                    bed.  When I was alone.

                                      JOHNSON
                    So you were shot and someone else was 
                     assaulted.   Whole thing s a 
                      simulation.  Go back in, create a couple 
                    of machine guns and get yourself some 
                    bad-ass revenge.  I still don t see what 
                    the big deal is -- none of it s real.  
                    It s all just in your head.

    Suddenly, Billie bolts from the room.                                                                                      60.


                                      JULES
                    I think it s a little more real than 
                    that than to one of us...

                                      SUE
                    You re an asshole, Jimmy.
                          (glaresat the male crew)
                    Same goes for the rest of you.

                                      VAL
                    Please not to be including me with them.

    Sue gets up and goes after Billie.  We go with her, into --

    INT. GALLEY - CONTINUOUS

    Billie tries to re-fill her mug from the coffee maker but the 
    carafe is empty.  She tosses her mug in the sink, leans on it.

                                      SUE
                    I m sorry.  They re idiots.  

                                      BILLIE
                    Knew that.

                                      SUE
                    What they don t get -- what none of them 
                    get -- is even when something like this 
                    happens in the real world... your mind 
                    iswhere it happens.  More than your 
                    body.  You re not even inyour body; 
                    they ve already taken that from you.

    Billie turns, her tear-stained face asking a question.

                                      SUE(cont d)
                    Training mission.  Two guys in my own 
                    unit.  I ate with them, racked with 
                    them... That was the worst -- the 
                      realization that none of that mattered, 
                    that I didn t really existfor them, 
                    except as...

    She trails off, lost in her own traumatic memory.

                                      BILLIE
                    What did you do?

    Sue s eyes become hooded -- a place she can t go.

                                      SUE
                    You don t wanna know...                                                                                    61.


    EXT. AMERICAN SOUTH - FIELD - DAY (V.R.)

    Pike, dressed again as a Union Colonel, stands by his horse, 
    watching his cavalry troop trot by him, saluting as they do, 
    while they sing along to a fife and drum (a popular Union 
    song:   Tramp, Tramp, Tramp ).  We sense Pike s saying goodbye 
    to all this, when --

                                      JEAN
                    Commander, Doctor Fallon is with you.

                                      PIKE
                    Thank you, Jean.

    The scene SHIMMERS AWAY around Pike, until he s back in --

    INT. PIKE S QUARTERS

    He takes off his headset, turns to Fallon.

                                      FALLON
                    Hard to step away, isn t it?

                                      PIKE
                    Just taking a last look.

                                      FALLON
                      A lastlook?  Let s hope not.  
                          (beat)
                    I hope you realize, Francis, the 
                    overriding importance of the virt 
                    modules as they relate to the 
                      psychological well-being of the crew.

                                      PIKE
                    I remember the pysch-briefings.

                                      FALLON
                    Forget the briefings.  Think about where 
                    we are now:  committed to years of 
                    living inside a ship with only twelve 
                    other human beings in the world.  
                    Without the ability to escape the 
                    confines of this metal tube periodically 
                    -- to experience other environments and 
                    interact with other people, even if 
                    they re only computer-generated -- the 
                    pressures of the mission will turn 
                    inward.  Divisions will form among the 
                    crew, barely acknowledged animosities 
                    and jealousies will crop up, paranoid 
                    and even delusional behavior is possible 
                    --                                                                                    62.


                                      PIKE
                    Well, we ll have just have to be better 
                    than that.  We ll have to be adults and 
                    take responsibility for our lives.  

                                      FALLON
                    This is not a question of willpower.  
                    It s human nature.  You know history -- 
                    think of the first long-duration space 
                    mission to Mars and what happened to 
                    that crew --

                                      PIKE
                    That was a different time and different 
                      circumstances.  Plus that ship was about 
                    a quarter the size of Phaeton, almost 
                    guaranteed to drive you crazy.

                                      FALLON
                    It s not the size of the ship.  It s the 
                    isolation from humanity and the natural 
                    world.  I m telling you as a 
                      psychologist, that it is imperative that 
                    the virtmodules be repaired and 
                      reactivated as soon as possible -- and 
                    I m certain that Mission Control, the 
                    Consortium and the network will all back 
                    me up on this.

                                      PIKE
                    Well, none of them are here.  I command 
                    this mission, Roger.  And I ll decide 
                    when and if the modules go back on line.

    Beat.

                                      FALLON
                    Making a lot of decisions on your own 
                    these days, Francis.  Just like the 
                    commander of the Mars mission did.

                                      PIKE
                    Nice try, but I m not going round the 
                    bend yet.

                                      JEAN
                    Excuse me, Commander.  There s a call 
                    from Jules on the Flight Deck.

    Pike taps his computer, and Jules APPEARS in a window.                                                                                    63.


                                      JULES (MONITOR)
                    Gotta a problem here, boss.  We  
                    retracted the comarray to run an air-
                    breaking test and now it won t deploy 
                    again.  Looks like a failure in the 
                    power supply.  I ve done all I can from 
                    here -- someone s gonna have to go for a 
                    walk and put in a new AE35 unit.

                                      PIKE
                    All right.  Tell Sue to meet me in the 
                    air lock.

    He turns to go, but Fallon is still there.

                                      FALLON
                    Did Rika confide in you with her story 
                    of being shot?

                                      PIKE
                    What --?  No.  Why?

                                      FALLON
                    You didn t seem surprised.

                                      PIKE
                    Nothing surprises me anymore.

    He s not entirely convincing.  Pike EXITS.  OFF Fallon...

    EXT. PHAETON - HULL SURVEILLANCE CAM VIEW - LONG SHOT

    The airlock opens and the two tiny SPACE-SUITED FIGURESof 
    Pike and Sue emerge, trigger their PROPULSION PACKS, and move 
    slowly over to one of the larger modules.

    INT. EDIT BAY

    Close on a surveillance monitor showing that long view, while 
    another shows a closer view of Sue and Pike alighting on the 
    module s hull near the base of the comarray -- a large 
    antenna currently folded into the hull.  CUT TO:

    INT. FLIGHT DECK

    Jules, Johnson, Alice and Kenji at stations, monitoring the 
    EVA.  Pike s and Sue s helmet-cam views are displayed on their 
    screens as well, tagged with their last names.

                                      SUE (RADIO)
                    Circuit board s fried.  Gimme a minute 
                    to swap it out.                                                                                    64.


    PANNINGto the trio of Kenji, Alice and Johnson, who are still 
    hashing over Pike s pronouncement.

                                      KENJI
                    It s like any other addictive drug:  the 
                    more you use it, the more you need it.  
                    Ask me, the Commander s doing us a 
                    favor.

    Alice reacts to his righteous tone as if feeling personally 
    rebuked, even though Kenji clearly had no such intention.

                                      JOHNSON
                    Speak for yourself.  I ve taken enough 
                    drugs to choke a horse, just to keep me 
                    alive.  But this is the only one that 
                    can get me out of this chair.

                SUE (RADIO)KENJI
    Got it.In your mind, perhaps.

                      JULESJOHNSON
    Great, read-out s up.  Power The mind s all we ve got.  
    supply active.  Replace the Rest of you just haven t 
    back-up and we should be good realized that yet.
    to go.

    Suddenly, an ALARM sounds.

                                      JEAN
                      Alert-alert-alert.  The comarray is 
                    deploying.  

                                      JOHNSON
                    Who ordered that?

                                      JEAN
                    Unknown.

    INTERCUTTING the helmet-cam views on Jules  screen with --

    EXT. PHAETON

    As the large antenna array swings rapidly out of the hull, 
    vertical rods SLASHING PIKE S SUIT while the mass of the array 
    SMASHES HIM OUT INTO SPACElike a giant pinball flipper.

    INT. FLIGHT DECK

    Near panic as the crewmen try to understand what s happened.

                                      SUE (RADIO)
                    Jesus Christ!  Jesus Christ!                                                                                    65.


                                      JULES
                    Sue!  What s going on out there?!

                                      SUE (RADIO)
                          (staticky)
                    The array just hit Pike!  I m going 
                    after him!

    By now Jules has locked a camera on Pike s receding body.

                                      JULES
                    Negative!  Your EVA suit does not have 
                    the capacity to reach him!

                                      SUE (RADIO)
                          (static obscuring curses)
                    Fuck! Fuckit!  I m going anyway!

                                      JULES
                    Do not go after him, acknowledge!  
                      Lieutenant, confirm you acknowledge!

    But now there s just static from Sue s radio along with the 
    SOUND of PANICKED BREATHING.  Alice, Kenji and Johnson are all 
    staring dumbfounded at their screens, where Pike s helmet-cam 
    view is spinning wildly, showing blurred streaks of stars, 
    then brief flashes of Phaeton, the ship growing smaller.

                                      MANNY
                    I can hear him breathing!  He s still 
                    breathing!

                                      JEAN
                    You are hearing Lieutenant Parson s 
                    respiration.  Commander Pike s bio-
                    readoutshave ceased.

    Alice s hands are half-covering her face as she stares.

                                      ALICE
                    Ohmygod... Ohmygod...

    INT. EDIT BAY

    Where one of the surveillance monitors shows Pike s body 
    receding like a tumbling white speck.  Pulling back from the 
    bank of monitors to reveal Fallon s chair is empty.

                                                                          FADE OUT.


                                    END ACT FIVE                                                                                    66.


                                        ACT SIX

    FADE IN;

    EXT. SPACE - THE PHAETON

    heads toward us.  Lacking a relativistic frame, it appears to 
    be moving very slowly.  During this long and stately approach, 
    we INTERCUT a series of brief video  confessions ...

    INT. CONFESSIONAL

    Billie facing camera with a stoic expression.

                                      BILLIE
                    So, it s Saturday.  Or is it Sunday?  
                    Time s different now.  Everything s 
                    different now, I guess.  Everything s 
                    slower.  Or faster.  I m not sure.
                          (forcedcheer)
                    But it s Saturday somewhere, right?  
                    Dancing, booze, hook-ups -- pahhh-tee.
                          (beat)
                    Same here.  Nothing but laughs.  Yeah.

    She takes a deep breath, her facade starting to crumble.

                                        BILLIE(cont d)
                    I wish -- I wish I knew him better.  He 
                    was the -- the strong, silent type, you 
                    know.  None of us really knew him.

    INT. CONFESSIONAL - ON RIKA

    As she just stares at camera for a beat, then looks away.

    INT. CONFESSIONAL - JOHNSON

    Spins around in his wheelchair, looking thoughtful, troubled, 
    also saying nothing.

    INT. CONFESSIONAL - MANNY AND VAL

    Holding hands, both distraught.  Manny crying quietly, Val 
    comforting him silently.  After a beat, Manny looks up at us.

                                      MANNY
                    It s selfish, I know.  But I keep 
                    feeling like he marooned us.  He s an 
                      experienced astronaut -- the most 
                      experienced of any of us.  How could he 
                    let this happen?                                                                                    67.


    INT. CONFESSIONAL - SUE

    Just a flash of her.  She s SCREAMING at the camera.  No 
    words, just an outraged noise!

    INT. CONFESSIONAL - ALICE AND KENJI

    Sitting a short but telling distance apart on the couch, Alice 
    lost in her own thoughts, Kenji sneaking troubled glances at 
    her as he speaks to camera --

                                      KENJI
                    There were twelve of us.  Now there s 
                    eleven.
                          (a glance at his wife)
                    Eleven of us for the next ten years.
                            (anotherglance, then)
                    It feels lonelier already.

    INT. CONFESSIONAL - FALLON

    Looking a bit uncomfortable under the gaze of his own camera.

                                      FALLON
                    I don t ordinarily do this... but maybe 
                    I should do it more.   Dose of my own 
                    medicine,  you know?
                          (beat)
                    The many qualities that make a good 
                    leader are so rarely found in one man.  
                    But Francis was... he was... 
                          (beat)
                    It s safe to say, he left a gap that may 
                    never be filled.

    INT. CONFESSIONAL - SUE

    Still screaming as she heaves the couch over, then tosses 
    Fallon s easy chair against a wall -- as Fallon, Meyer and Val 
    rush in and try to restrain her.  We catch chaotic fragments --

                                      FALLON
                    Hold her down!

                                      VAL
                    I am trying.

    Meyer is trying to uncap a hypodermic as we --

    INT. CONFESSIONAL - MEYER

    Breathing heavily, sitting on the roughly rearranged couch, 
    glaring at camera, holding his trembling hand --                                                                                    68.


                                      MEYER
                    Are you happy, Roger?  Will this boost 
                    our numbers?  Are... you... happy?!

                                                                      END INTERCUT

    And we re out... just as Phaeton reaches us, passing under our 
    pivoting camera and revealing three space-suited figures 
    working around the damaged comarray, before the ship heads 
    away into space.  Over which --

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    Dear Shawn... I wish you could read 
                    this.  I wish a lot of things.  We re 
                    still making repairs to the comarray 
                    and it s unclear when we ll be able to 
                    resume our packet bursts.  Means we re 
                    also cut off from Earth.  Truly on our 
                    own.  But then I guess we always were.

    INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

    A disheveled Jules sits on the floor with his back against the 
    huge window, speaking into a recording device.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    There wasn t any question about turning 
                    back.  Having passed go/no-go, we re 
                    committed to the mission.

    INT. BRIEFING ROOM

    The crew is assembled, arguing -- Fallon looking as if he s 
    facing off against the others, Johnson in particular, while 
    Jules plays moderator.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    But there was a brief argument about who 
                    or what was responsible for the 
                    accident, which was resolved when Mr. 
                    Johnson, who was second in command, 
                    declared it a system malfunction.
                          (beat)
                    Johnson s first order, after consulting 
                    with Mr. Fallon, our psych officer, was 
                    to reinstate the virt program even as we 
                      investigate the problems we ve been 
                    having with it.

    INT. SICKBAY

    Meyer fills a syringe from an ampoule and gives himself a 
    painful injection, the first of many.                                                                                    69.


                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    After that, we all just tried to get 
                    back to normal.

    INT. EDIT BAY

    Fallon edits the footage of Pike's fateful space walk, his 
    expression neutral as he splices the disturbing footage.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    But what s normal, you have to ask 
                    yourself, when you re hundreds of 
                    millions of miles from Earth, home is a 
                    collection of metal compartments...

    INT. GREENHOUSE

    Rika digs a hole for a plant in a soil bin, then buries one of 
    Pike s little hand-painted Civil War figurines beneath it.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    ...andyou ve just lost the one man who 
                    was able to hold you all together?

    INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

                                      JULES
                    I ll tell you what I want to do.  I want 
                    to start over.  Be honest with you... 
                    and with myself.  No more lies.  No more 
                    fantasies built on lies.

    INT. JOHNSON S QUARTERS

    Johnson wheels into his quarters, painfully muscles his 
    uncooperative body into bed, then puts on a V.R. headset.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    Just the truth.  A new start.

    EXT. MOUNT EVEREST - NORTH FACE (V.R.)

    Johnson clambers out of a mountaineer's tent on sturdy 
    functional legs and takes in the stunning view.

                                      JULES (V.O.)
                    Maybe for all of us.

    INT. PARTIALLY CONSTRUCTED HIGH-RISE - NIGHT (V.R.)

    We re sharing someone s POV of a blood-stained girder, a 
    tangle of construction wire still looped around it.                                                                                    70.


    REVEAL BILLIE staring at it.  Another woman puts a reassuring 
    HAND on her shoulder.  Sue.

                                      BILLIE
                    So what do I do now?

                                      SUE
                    You mean what do wedo.
                          (offher look)
                    We find that scumbag... and we kill him.

    INT. DOCTOR S WAITING ROOM/OFFICE (V.R.)

    Alice is trying to barge past a NURSE.

                                      NURSE
                    You can t just come in here without an 
                    appointment!

                                      ALICE
                    Get the hell out of my way!

    She pushes though the door, down a short hall, then pushes 
    though a door into the doctor s private office, where --

    THE GREEN-EYED MAN, in a doctor s white coat, looks up at her 
    with mild surprise.

                                        ALICE(cont d)
                    We need to talk!

    And off this strange confrontation and it s puzzling 
    implications -- Does she know who he is? -- we CUT TO:

    INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

    Jules clicks off the recording device, the red light goes off.

                                      JULES
                    Jean?

                                      JEAN
                    Yes, Jules.

                                      JULES
                    I want to create a new virt module.  Can 
                    you help me?

                                      JEAN
                    Of course, Jules.  Tell me what you 
                    need.                                                                                    71.


    EXT. PHAETON - PROW - POV ANGLE LOOKING FORWARD

    At first we might think we re sharing the POV of a 
    surveillance camera. Then we pull back to find Jules standing 
    on the hull, sans space suit, his hand on the shoulder of his 
    young son, Shawn, their hair tousled by a light cosmic wind.

    And as we pull back from the strange yet somehow beguiling 
    image -- like Leo and Kate on the bowsprit of Titanic -- while  
    Bowie's "Space Oddity" plays on the soundtrack, we...

                                                                          FADE OUT.